ACA

FRANCES E BERDAN

cores
on Só

AZTEC ARCHAEOLOGY AND ETHNOHISTORY

This book provides an up-to-date synthesis of Aztec culture, applying
interdisciplinary approaches (archaeology, ethnohistory, and ethnography) to the reconstruction of a complex and enigmatic civilization.
Frances F. Berdan offers a balanced assessment of complementary and
sometimes contradictory sources in unraveling this ancient way of life.
The book provides a cohesive view of the Aztecs and their empire,
emphasizing the diversity and complexity of social, economic, political,
and religious roles played by the many kinds of people we call “Aztecs.”
Concluding with three integrative case studies, the book examines the
stresses, dynamics, and anchors of Aztec culture and society.
Frances F. Berdan is Professor Emerita of the Department of
Anthropology at California State University, San Bernardino. She won
the Outstanding Professor Award for the California State University
system in 1982–1983. She is author or editor of twelve books, including
The Aztecs of Central Mexico (2005, 2d ed.), The Codex Mendoza (1992,
co-authored), Aztec Imperial Strategies (1996, co-authored), and The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (2003, co-edited). Her articles have been
published in Scientific American, American Antiquity, Latin American
Antiquity, Ancient Mesoamerica, and Arqueología Mexicana.

CAMBRIDGE WORLD ARCHAEOLOGY
Series Editor

norman yoffee, University of Michigan
Editorial Board

susan alcock, Brown University
tom dillehay, Vanderbilt University
tim pauketat, University of Illinois
stephen shennan, University College London
carla sinopolI, University of Michigan
david wengrow, University College London
The Cambridge World Archaeology series is addressed to students and professional archaeologists, and to academics in related disciplines. Most
volumes present a survey of the archaeology of a region of the world,
providing an up-to-date account of research and integrating recent
findings with new concerns of interpretation. While the focus is on a
specific region, broader cultural trends are discussed and the implications of regional findings for cross-cultural interpretations considered.
The authors also bring anthropological and historical expertise to bear
on archaeological problems and show how both new data and changing
intellectual trends in archaeology shape inferences about the past. More
recently, the series has expanded to include thematic volumes.
Recent Books in the Series
KOJI MIZOGUCHI, The Archaeology of Japan
MIKE SMITH, The Archaeology of Australia’s Deserts
A. BERNARD KNAPP, The Archaeology of Cyprus
LI LIU AND XINGCAN CHEN, The Archaeology of China
STEPHEN D. HOUSTON AND TAKESHI INOMATA, The Classic Maya
PHILIP L. KOHL, The Making of Bronze Age Eurasia
LAWRENCE BARHAM AND PETER MITCHELL, The First Africans
ROBIN DENNELL, The Palaeolithic Settlement of Asia
CHRISTOPHER POOL, Olmec Archaeology and Early Mesoamerica
SAMUEL M. WILSON, The Archaeology of the Caribbean
RICHARD BRADLEY, The Prehistory of Britain
LUDMILA KORYAKOVA AND ANDREJ EPIMAKHOV, The Urals and Western

Siberia in the Bronze and Iron Ages
DAVID WENGROW, The Archaeology of Early Egypt
PAUL RAINBIRD, The Archaeology of Micronesia
PETER M. M. G. AKKERMANS AND GLENN M. SCHWARTZ, The Archaeology

of Syria
TIMOTHY INSOLL, The Archaeology of Islam in Sub-Saharan Africa

C am b ri d g e W or l d A rc ha e olog y

AZTEC ARCHAEOLOGY
AND ETHNOHISTORY
Frances F. Berdan
California State University, San Bernardino

32 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10013-2473, USA
Cambridge University Press is part of the University of Cambridge.
It furthers the University’s mission by disseminating knowledge in the pursuit of
education, learning, and research at the highest international levels of excellence.
www.cambridge.org
Information on this title: www.cambridge.org/9780521707565
© Frances F. Berdan 2014
This publication is in copyright. Subject to statutory exception
and to the provisions of relevant collective licensing agreements,
no reproduction of any part may take place without the written
permission of Cambridge University Press.
First published 2014
Printed in the United States of America
A catalog record for this publication is available from the British Library.
Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication data
Berdan, Frances.
Aztec archaeology and ethnohistory / Frances F. Berdan.
pages cm. – (Cambridge world archaeology)
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 978-0-521-88127-2 (hardback)
1. Aztecs – Historiography. 2. Aztecs – Social life and customs. 3. Aztecs –
Antiquities. 4. Ethnohistory – Mexico. 5. Mexico – Antiquities. I. Title.
F1219.73.B463 2013
972′.01–dc23
2013027230
ISBN 978-0-521-88127-2 Hardback
ISBN 978-0-521-70756-5 Paperback

Cambridge University Press has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy of URLs
for external or third-party Internet Web sites referred to in this publication and does not
guarantee that any content on such Web sites is, or will remain, accurate or appropriate.

contents

List of Figures .................................................................. page viii
List of Tables ........................................................................... xi
List of Cases .......................................................................... xii
Acknowledgments ................................................................... xiii
A Word about Terminologies ...................................................... xvii
Nahuatl Pronunciation Guide .................................................... xix
PArt i. setting the stAge

1

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting
the Aztec World .............................................................. 3

2

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans ......................................... 31

PArt ii. Aztec society And cUltUre

3

Living on the Land ........................................................ 49

4

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade ...................... 89

5

City-States and Imperial Rule ....................................... 135

6

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life .............. 176

7

Religion, Science, and the Arts ...................................... 215

8

The Aztec World: An Integrated View ............................ 259

Glossary .............................................................................. 295
Notes .................................................................................. 297
References ............................................................................. 313
Index .................................................................................. 335

vii

FIGURES

1.1
1.2
1.3
C1.1
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
C1.2
1.8
C1.3
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
3.1
C3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
3.5
3.6
3.7
3.8
3.9
viii

Regions of Mesoamerica: Postclassic period
Aztec-period Basin of Mexico city-states mentioned in Chapter 1
Existing steps of the final two stages of Tenochtitlan’s Templo
Mayor
The founding of Tenochtitlan as depicted in the Codex Mendoza
A phonetic glyph, tzintli, identifying a feather prepared for an
elaborate mosaic by a skilled featherworker
Schematic layout of Tenochtitlan’s ceremonial precinct
Vessels for drinking pulque and cacao
Golden eagle bones and decorated knives in offering 125,
Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor precinct
The renowned Aztec Calendar (or Sun) Stone
Bark beater currently in use in San Pablito, Puebla, Mexico
A twentieth-century Nahua woman weaving on a backstrap
loom in the Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico
Map of the boundaries of Mesoamerica
Classic-period Teotihuacan
The Teochichimeca
Sculptural reliefs from (a) Tula and (b) Tenochtitlan
Totonaca from the eastern Aztec Empire
Mesoamerican topography
A central Mexican landscape
Map of the Basin of Mexico in 1519
A stair-step schematic of the central Mexican plateaus
A hilly landscape of eastern Mexico
(a) An Aztec-period commoner house excavated at Capilco,
Morelos; (b) a twentieth-century peasant house in central Mexico
Icnocalli: a humble or poor commoner’s house
(a) A molcaxitl (molcajete) for grinding up chiles and other
foods; (b) a tripod serving dish
Generalized layout of a noble’s palace with large central
courtyard and royal dais
Decorated spindle whorls

page 5
6
7
8
11
14
17
17
18
22
24
32
35
37
40
45
50
51
53
57
58
64
65
66
67
68

Figures
3.10
C3.3
4.1
C4.1
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
C4.2
4.6
4.7
4.8
4.9
4.10

4.11
4.12
4.13
5.1
5.2
5.3
5.4
C5.3
5.5
6.1
6.2
6.3

6.4
6.5
6.6
6.7
6.8
6.9
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5

(a) Small bowl for steadying a lively spindle; (b) a young wife
spinning, using spinning bowl; (c) a woman today spinning brown cotton 73
The Chapultepec aqueduct
78
Tribute sources of precious materials
91
(a) Finely crafted turquoise mosaic disk; (b) detail
93
(a) Pottery molds with figures; (b) pottery stamp
95
Black on orange pitcher
96
Map of notable craft communities in the Basin of Mexico
97
A father teaching his son the fine art of lapidary work
98
Coyote-designed shield crafted of feathers and gold
100
(a) Softening the bark for making amate (amatl) paper today in
105
San Pablito, Mexico; (b) a girl embroidering in San Pablito
A cloak designed Ocuilteca style
106
A Cuextecatl (Huaxteca-style) warrior costume
107
Maguey (agave) plant
112
(a) Map of documented sixteenth-century weekly markets in
the Basin of Mexico; (b) a twentieth-century Nahua woman
selling her produce in a Mexican marketplace
119
(a) Cacao pod with beans; (b) large cotton capes, or quachtli;
(c) copper axe money
124
Map of imperial and international trading centers
129
Map showing pochteca presence in the Basin of Mexico
132
Basin of Mexico ethnic groups
139
Royal genealogy of the Mexica of Tenochtitlan
145
Twelve conquests of Axayacatl as depicted in the Codex
Mendoza
157
Imperial tribute from the rich province of Tepequacuilco
162
Imperial tribute from the Gulf coast province of Tochpan
167
Map of the Aztec Empire in 1519, with tributary and strategic
provinces
172
Lords with exalted titles and insignia
181
Commoners receiving orders for corvée labor
182
A wealthy deceased merchant wrapped in cloth and expensive adornments, accompanied by his precious feathers, stones,
gold, and a jaguar pelt
187
Mexica kinship terminology: consanguines
192
The elder brother favored over the younger
195
Mexica kinship terminology: affines
196
Childhood punishments and tasks, ages 11–14
201
A young couple tying the knot in marriage
204
Judges meting out punishments to offenders
213
A priestly astronomer
218
A recently excavated monolith of the earth deity Tlaltecuhtli,
unearthed near the Templo Mayor in Mexico City
231
Tlaloc, god of rain
232
Macuilxochitl presiding over the game of patolli
233
(a) A priest offering incense; (b) a ceramic censor
236

ix

x

Figures
7.6
7.7
7.8
7.9

A whistle or flute
A human heart sacrifice
Doctoring a head wound
Herbal medicines for sale in a twentieth-century Mexican
marketplace
7.10 Aztec glyphs: (a) cave, (b) palace, (c) deer’s foot, (d) the name
Atonal
C7.3 Glyphic versions of the name Moquihuix
C8.1 Rewards in cloaks and military devices earned by courageous
warriors
C8.2 Maps of world systems commodities and their movements
8.1
(a) An indigenous tailor wearing a cape over Spanish clothes
in colonial times; (b) a modern Nahua woman sewing trousers for her husband
8.2
A native warrior wielding a Spanish sword during the war of
conquest
8.3
A modern Nahua woman weaving wool on a backstrap loom
8.4
Modern paper image of the native maize god
Chicomexochitl (Seven Flower)

239
240
247
250
253
254
261
273–5

284
287
288
291

TA B L E S

2.1
6.1
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4

Chronology of Central Mexico and the Basin of Mexico
Aztec Social Class Structure
The 260-Day Ritual Calendar
Cosmic Principles in the Aztec Worldview
Tenochtitlan Sequence of the Five Ages, or “Suns”
Ceremonies of the Monthly Calendar

page 34
185
217
220
224
226

xi

CASES

1.1
1.2
1.3
2.1
2.2
3.1
3.2
3.3
3.4
4.1
4.2
4.3
5.1
5.2
5.3
6.1
6.2
6.3
6.4
7.1
7.2
7.3
8.1
8.2
8.3

xii

How It Survived 1: The Codex Mendoza
How It Survived 2: The Aztec Calendar Stone
How It Survived 3: The Backstrap Loom
The Aztec Migrations: Prelude to Tenochtitlan
Mexica Development Strategies: Prelude to Empire
Geographical Zones in the Aztec World
Famines, Frosts, and Floods: Aztec-Period Disasters in the Basin
of Mexico
An Engineering Marvel: The Chapultepec Aqueduct
Thinking Like an Aztec 1: The Natural World
Thinking Like an Aztec 2: The Luxury Artisan
Making a Fancy Feather Object
The Value of Things 1: Some Subsistence Goods
Imperial Personalities
How to Move a Rock (Imperial Style)
Imperial Tribute Payments: The Province of Tochpan
Behaving Like a Proper Noble or Commoner
A Merchant’s Feast
After the Wedding, Then What?
The Exemplary Life
The Creation of the Fifth Sun, According to the Florentine
Codex
Medical Issues and Cures: A Sampler
How to Write a Ruler’s Name: Moquihuix of Tlatelolco
The Value of Things 2: Rewards for Warriors
Foreign Goods and What They Tell Us
Desperate Rivals and the Fate of a World

page 8
18
24
38
40
51
54
78
84
92
100
126
142
149
166
178
188
197
202
221
248
254
262
273
278

AC K N OW L E D G M E N T S

I consider it a great privilege to acknowledge the generous and kind support
and guidance I have received from numerous colleagues and friends in developing this book. In the most general sense, I cannot imagine having arrived at
the point where I could write the book without the intellectual heritage of
my long-term colleagues who have made outstanding and lasting contributions to the field of Aztec studies, and who have supported me from the earliest
days of my career, who have worked with me, and whom I count as friends.
These include, most notably, Warwick Bray, James Lockhart, Alfredo López
Austin, Eduardo Matos Moctezuma, and the late Arthur J. O. Anderson and H.
B. Nicholson. Their influence can be seen throughout this book.
Over the years and during the writing of this book, I have benefited
immensely from stimulating discussions with many esteemed colleagues
and friends with whom I have worked closely, collaborating with several
of them on specific projects. These colleagues especially include Richard
Blanton, Elizabeth Boone, John Chance, Laura Filloy, Janine Gasco, Kenneth
Hirth, Mary Hodge, James Lockhart, Leonardo López Luján, Justyna Olko,
Alan Sandstrom, Sue Scott, Michael E. Smith, Barbara Stark, James Taggart,
Karl Taube, and Emily Umberger. My interaction with these generous and
thoughtful scholars has been most pleasurable and productive.Their impact on
this book goes well beyond the formal citations and references. Ethnographic
work in the Sierra Norte de Puebla, Mexico, with Patricia Anawalt was supported by grants from the National Geographic Society; this research yielded
many insights into Nahua culture in its present-day manifestation.
I owe a special debt of gratitude to Norman Yoffee: he suggested I write
this book, encouraged me as I plodded along, and was patient when I took too
long to finish it. Simply put, the book would not “be” without Norm. I am
also grateful to Kenneth Hirth and an anonymous reviewer for their incisive
and valuable comments on the manuscript, and to Karl Taube and other anonymous reviewers for their thoughtful and useful evaluations of the project’s
proposal.
xiii

xiv

Acknowledgments
Over many years numerous scholars have invited me to deliver papers at
professional meetings and research conferences, thus offering me opportunities
to confront and grapple with tricky issues in the field. The thinking and analyses that I was encouraged to do on such occasions are reflected throughout
this book. The conference and symposium organizers include, most notably,
Michael E. Smith (world systems); John Chance and Barbara Stark (ethnicity); Brigitte Kovacevich (inalienable wealth); Laura Filloy Nadal (mosaic
technologies); Kenneth Hirth (mosaic technologies); Colin McEwan, Caroline
Cartwright, and Rebecca Stacey (mosaic technologies); Justyna Olko and
Stephanie Wood (glyphic writing); Diana Fane, Alessandra Russo, and Gerhard
Wolf (featherworking); Manuel Aguilar-Moreno (featherworking); and Lane
Fargher (featherworking). All of these topics are highlighted in this book, and
I am grateful to each of these scholars for the opportunities to refine my
thoughts on these issues and for their valuable comments on my work.
This book benefited greatly from research in the storage facilities of
museums housing important and intriguing Aztec pieces. My visits to these
museums were marked by the highest levels of collegiality, attentiveness, efficiency, and, well, fun. I would like to express a special thanks to Leonardo
López Luján (Museo Templo Mayor), Pat Nietfeld (National Museum of the
American Indian, Smithsonian Institution), Christian Feest and Gerard van
Bussell (Museum für Völkerkunde, Vienna), and Gary Feinman and Gordon
Ambrosino (Field Museum).
A research leave grant in 2009 from California State University, San
Bernardino (CSUSB), provided me with extra time and resources that helped
measurably to move this book along – I am most grateful to the university. I
also very much appreciate the sustained encouragement I have received from
Peter Robertshaw as Chair of the Department of Anthropology at CSUSB
and as a genial and respected colleague. In addition, Pete has consistently supported the Laboratory for Ancient Materials Analysis, CSUSB. Some results of
work from this laboratory are reported in this book.
The book is greatly enhanced by pictures and drawings generously provided
by Jennifer Berdan, Robert Berdan, Leonardo López Luján, Alan Sandstrom,
Michael E. Smith, and Emily Umberger. I very much appreciate their willingness to provide me with these excellent visual additions.
Almost all of the drawings, figures, and maps in this book were produced by
my daughter, Jennifer Berdan. She not only contributed the technical expertise, but also caught several inconsistencies and other points of confusion in my
drafts, thus saving me from any number of embarrassments.
The production of this book was managed, facilitated, and achieved by the
expertise and patience of Beatrice Rehl, Isabella Vitti, and Holly Johnson. It
was also a pleasure to work with Mary Becker, whose copyediting talents notably refined and clarified the book’s prose. I appreciate immensely the careful

Acknowledgments
attention all of these experts applied to this project. The book’s final form is a
reflection of their high standards.
And finally I offer my deepest thanks to my husband, Bob, who unstintingly
supported me throughout this rather lengthy enterprise.
A heartfelt thank-you to all.

xv

A WO R D A B O U T T E R M I N O L O G I E S

This book is about the Aztecs. Or, more precisely, it is about the Mexica.
In Mesoamerica. During Late Postclassic times. These terms may seem
straightforward, yet they suffer quite variable use and therefore require some
clarification.

Aztecs
This term is particularly troublesome. Found scattered about in various documents of the sixteenth century, it achieved general usage after Alexander von
Humboldt popularized it following his 1804 journey to Mexico and the subsequent publication of his adventures (see von Humboldt 1995). While used
variously today, Aztec usually refers to the inhabitants of the Basin of Mexico
during the Late Postclassic period (as I use the term here), although it also
appears in reference specifically to the Mexica. Sometimes the use is restricted
to Nahuatl speakers (as it is in this book), sometimes not. The Aztec Empire is
equivalent to the empire of the Triple Alliance of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and
Tlacopan, which dominated central Mexico from 1428 to 1521. Aztec also
refers to imperial architectural and artistic styles, as well as to specific chronological periods. Nicholson (1971: 116) reviews its use, finally concluding that its
“continued use … is probably justified by convenience and tradition, even if
not, in the most technical sense, correct.”
Mexica
Mexica were inhabitants of the sister-cities of Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco.
Those of Tenochtitlan also came to be called Tenochca or Culhua-Mexica, the
latter in recognition of their marriage ties to an honorable dynasty of nearby
Culhuacan. These and other similar names of self-identification reflected history, heritage, and cultural and group affiliations.
Mesoamerica
This term refers to a culture area, encompassing the parts of Mexico and
Central America that relied on maize agriculture and experienced the rise and
xvii

xviii

A Word about Terminologies
fall of sophisticated civilizations in pre-Columbian times. The area’s boundaries necessarily shifted over time, its northern extremity roughly at the fringe of
the northern deserts, and its southern area reaching into present-day Honduras
and El Salvador.

Late Postclassic (or Late Aztec)
Late Postclassic designates a time period generally defined as 1350 AD to the
Spanish conquest of the Aztecs in 1521. Immediately preceding this time of
Aztec domination were the Middle Postclassic or Early Aztec period (1150–1350
AD) and the Early Postclassic (950–1150 AD) (see Table 2.1; Hodge 1998: 198–
199; Smith 2003d: 30).

N A H UAT L P RO N U N C I AT I O N G U I D E

The language spoken by the sixteenth-century Aztecs was Nahuatl (NA-watl),
called Classical Nahuatl by modern linguists. This language has persevered,
albeit with five hundred years of linguistic change, and today is spoken by
approximately 1.5 million persons in Mexico, many of whom call their language Mexicano (Me-shee-KA-no). The various dialects of this modern language, along with colonial written sources, offer clues to the pronunciation of
the earlier language.
The word Nahuatl is one of a cluster of words referring to good sounds
(for instance, “nauatini: cosa que tiene claro y buen sonido” – “something that
has a clear and good sound”; Molina 1970: 63v). In essence, it means clear
and understandable speech. The pre-Spanish Aztecs used a glyphic writing
system that contained some phonetic elements (see Chapter 7), and after the
Spanish arrival the Roman phonetic alphabet was applied to Nahuatl.The earliest Nahuatl alphabetic records derive from the Cuernavaca region (late 1530s,
early 1540s) and were probably based on canons developed by a Franciscan
friar but actually written by various indigenous individuals (Lockhart 1992:
335). A profusion of Nahuatl alphabetic documents of many types followed
during the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries (see Chapter 1).These documents
help us interpret actual speech patterns, since although “the system the friars
taught the Nahuas was far from a perfect vehicle for recording the spoken language … it was nothing to be ashamed of ” (Lockhart 1992: 337).
On the basis of ethnographic and ethnohistoric sources, Classical Nahuatl
pronunciation would have followed these general rules:
1. With very few exceptions, stress or emphasis was on the next-to-last
syllable of a word.
2. Vowels were pronounced approximately as indicated here (this is considerably simplified, as Nahuatl vowels were, additionally, long and short):
a as in English palm
e as in English bet

acatl (A-catl): reed
tepetl (TE-petl): hill
xix

xx

Nahuatl Pronunciation Guide
i as in English see
o as in English so

chilli (CHEE-lee): chile
tochtli (TOCH-tlee): rabbit

(Note: o and u often appear interchangeably in written documents, and
the actual pronunciation may have been intermediate between the two
sounds: e.g., tochtli/tuchtli, Colhuacan/Culhuacan.)
Combinations of hu- and qu- with another vowel were common. These
were pronounced as follows:
hua as in English wander
huacalli (wa-KA-lee): large basket
hue as in English way
huexolotl (way-SHO-lotl): turkey
hui as in English week
ihuitl (EE-weetl): feather
qua as in English quality
qualli (KWA-lee): good
que as in English kept
quechtli (KECH-tlee): neck
qui as in English key
quiahuitl (kee-A-weetl): rain
3. Most consonants were pronounced as in English or Spanish. Significantly
different ones were:
ll similar to English fill calli (KA-lee): house
but held longer
tl is a single sound, a t coyotl (KO-yotl): coyote
followed by a soft l
tz as in English cats
tzontli (TSON-tlee): hair
x as in English she
xochitl (SHO-cheetl): flower
z as in English silly
mazatl, maçatl (MA-satl): deer
c before an a, o, or
cacahuatl (ka-KA-watl): cacao bean
consonant = k
c before an e or i = s
ticitl (TEE-seetl): physician
The tl at the end of words posed particular difficulties for the early
Spaniards in Mexico, who often replaced it with their more comfortable
Spanish te. So, for example, ocotl (O-kotl: pinewood) became ocote, tecolotl
(te-KO-lotl: owl) became tecolote, and xitomatl (shee-TO-matl: tomato)
became tomate.
4. Nahuatl has a glottal stop. This is a “catch” in speech sounding like
“uh uh” in English. In many cases it appears that the early Spaniards
in Mexico did not hear or recognize the sound, as it only occasionally
appeared in written form. When they did include it, they typically indicated it with an h. For instance, ohtli (road) is most often written otli,
ozomahtli (monkey) as ozomatli, and so on.
In sixteenth-century Europe, spelling rules were, to say the least, rather flexible. Colonial documents written in Nahuatl also followed this spelling fluidity.
For example, the name of the ruler Motecuhzoma (Mo-tek’w-SO-ma) is variously seen as Moctezuma, Montecuzoma, Mohtecuzoma, Motecuhzoma, and
Montezuma, among other creative spellings.

PA RT 1

SETTING THE STAGE

C hap t e r 1
D I S C OV E R I N G, U N C OV E R I N G,
AND INTERPRETING THE
A Z T E C WO R L D

Then he [King Ahuitzotl] called the stoneworkers and ordered them to finish
the temple of their god as quickly as possible. Without delay they began to
work on the stones that were lacking and carve the figures I saw in a painted
manuscript, which were, in this manuscript, a sharp sacrificial stone and next to
it an image of the goddess called Coyolxauh; and on the corners of the temple
two statues with cruciform mantles, these made of rich feathers.
Diego Durán 1994: 328; originally written 1581

This temple sat at the very heart of the Aztecs’ empire, the axis mundi of their
known world (Figures 1.1 and 1.2). Soon to be dedicated, in the year AD 1487,
this version of the Huey Teocalli, or Great Temple, was the fifth full expansion
of a humble construction erected in AD 1325. That first modest temple, built
of reeds, wood, and mud, was the effort of a small, bedraggled, and unwelcome
group of Mexica who had recently arrived in the Basin of Mexico in search of
a new homeland and, in their eyes, their destiny.
The temple would experience one more expansion, in 1502. This was the
temple seen and climbed by the Spaniard Hernán Cortés in his epic visit to the
Mexica capital city of Tenochtitlan in November 1519 (Figure 1.3). Less than
two years later, in August 1521, the great city fell to the Spanish conquerors,
to be recast as Mexico City in the Spanish Empire’s colonial jurisdiction of
New Spain.
Those nearly two hundred years, from the settlement of Tenochtitlan in
1325 until its demise in 1521, saw the rapid growth of this immense urban center, from which radiated the greatest empire in the history of Mesoamerica.
During its final hundred years this was a world politically and militarily dominated by the Mexica. Nonetheless, others in Mesoamerica (whether allies,
subjects, or enemies) shared a similarly sophisticated civilization.
Drawing on their accomplished predecessors, the Mexica and their neighbors constructed massive temples and palaces, engineered astonishingly accurate
public works such as aqueducts and a dike, and employed precise astronomical and mathematical knowledge in their city planning and architecture. They
3

4

Setting the Stage
created remarkable objects from stones, metals, feathers, shells, and myriad
other materials for use in their personal and public lives. They applied clever
cultivation techniques to increase food production and offset years of agricultural catastrophe. In addition to providing them with a cornucopia of useful
resources, their knowledge of the natural world offered them a remarkable medical pharmacopoeia. These were a practical people, yet their beliefs extended
well beyond the empirical universe into a teeming world of powerful gods and
goddesses, enthralling myths and legends, and flamboyant public ceremonies.
They wrote books based on a glyphic writing system and amassed impressive
libraries. And the Mexica and their allies organized themselves socially, politically, and militarily to the extent that they dominated much of central and a
part of southern Mexico by the time of Cortés’s arrival.
With the Spanish conquest, this world was in part destroyed, in part transformed. Mexico City grew atop Tenochtitlan, viceroys supplanted Aztec kings,
Spanish priests and ceremonies replaced their Aztec counterparts. Introduced
Spanish industries, crops, and economic priorities took precedence over native
ones.These and other traumatic events, impositions, and changes left only fragments of Aztec life behind to be discovered, uncovered, and interpreted over
the successive five hundred years.
DISCOVERING AND UNCOVERING THE AZTEC WORLD

Those fragments of the Aztec world include pictorial codices, recorded oral
histories and other accounts of the native survivors, massive and portable material objects, public and private architecture and engineering feats, and burials.
Still today, about 1.5 million people speak the Nahuatl language, and additional
features of native life have survived, some of them in remarkably sound fashion, most persistently in outlying areas of the Aztec realm. In all, these cultural
elements experienced variable survival rates, depending initially on such factors as Spanish colonial policies, interests, and activities; native adaptations to
the new lords of the land; geographical location; and happenstance. Later on
in Mexican history, to the present time, more and more of the ancient Aztec
world was uncovered and revealed through systematic archaeological, historical, epigraphic, art historical, linguistic, and ethnographic investigations based
on evolving scientific techniques and theoretical approaches to understanding
the past. And still, happenstance played (and continues to play) a role.
All of these approaches depend on a solid foundation of data, and the following section offers a brief (and necessarily selective) foray into the most
important of these sources.1 Students of Aztec civilization are particularly fortunate in having at their disposal a vast and diverse array of source material,
ranging from primary written manuscripts, to stationary and portable physical
remains, to the practices and beliefs of present-day Aztec descendants. It is,

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World

Figure 1.1. Regions of Mesoamerica: Postclassic period. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

indeed, a comforting reality that so many different sources of information can
be pressed into service to unravel the intricacies and enigmas of Aztec life.

Pictorial Codices and Other Historical Documents
PICTORIAL CODICES

The Aztec elite were literate and produced vast numbers of pictorial codices.
They had specialized books, professional scribes, and sophisticated techniques
for recording their histories, cosmologies, ceremonies, calendrics, geography,
royal genealogies, and economic matters. Only a handful of these pre-conquest
manuscripts still exist, having survived the ravages of conquest and inquisition. In the Basin of Mexico, arguably only a single pictorial codex can claim
a pre-conquest origin: the Matrícula de Tributos (Berdan 1980; Batalla Rosado
2007).2 However, some other now-lost codices reappear, copied and modified, in the colonial period (such as the first two parts of the Codex Mendoza,
the Tira de la Peregrinación, and the Codex Telleriano-Remensis).3 Innumerable
others, now lost, peek through early colonial narratives and histories, having
been seen and used by some of the most prolific sixteenth-century Spanish
and native writers in Mexico. Diego Durán, quoted at the beginning of this

5

6

Setting the Stage

Figure 1.2. Aztec-period Basin of Mexico city-states mentioned in Chapter 1.
(Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

chapter, is quite specific about his examination of such a codex, as are Juan de
Torquemada (1969: vol. 1, 75, 77), Motolinía (1969: 2), Bernardino de Sahagún
(León-Portilla 2002: 144–145, 163; Nicholson 1997: 4), and Alonso de Zorita4
(1994: 87; see also Glass 1975: 20; Robertson 1994: 49). Native chroniclers
of the colonial period such as Alva Ixtlilxochitl (1965: vol. 2, 173–181) and
Chimalpahin (Schroeder 1991: 16, 21) also relied on these pictorial manuscripts for much of the content in their textual accounts.
The great majority of extant pictorial codices derive from colonial times, and
there are scores of them (Boone 2000a: 11; Robertson 1994; Glass 1975; Glass and
Robertson 1975). Although composed after the Spanish conquest, these manuscripts reveal much about the pre-Spanish Aztec world. Some explicitly recount
Aztec life before the conquest, the historical ones moving almost seamlessly through

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World

7

Figure 1.3. Existing steps
of the final two stages of
Tenochtitlan’s Templo
Mayor. (Photograph by
Frances Berdan.)

the conquest itself into the new colonial experience (e.g., Quiñones Keber 1995;
Boone 2000a: 229, 247). Others record colonial matters that reflect continuing
Aztec knowledge and practices concerning local histories, traditional community
rights, maps and boundaries, family relations, naming, economic production, tribute duties, political order, herbal medicine, and even aspects of forbidden religious
beliefs (e.g., Boone 2007, 2000a: 248; Glass 1975; Robertson 1994; Montes de Oca
Vega et al. 2003; Prem 1974; Gates 1939; Berdan and Anawalt 1992; see Case 1.1).
Most of these colonial pictorials are enhanced by the addition of handwritten
glosses or explanations in Nahuatl and/or Spanish.These amplify and reinforce the
glyphic presentation with textual details, although occasionally mistakes do creep
in.5 Nonetheless, the pictorial images themselves were composed largely by native
scribes, trained in native traditions and projecting native styles (Robertson 1994:
9–10; Boone 2000a: 11–12). The extent of retention of native style and content is
impressive considering the close Spanish supervision of the production of many of
these codices. So, although composed in colonial times, this large pictorial corpus,
viewed critically, offers valuable insights into pre-conquest Aztec life.
A particularly monumental colonial effort, resulting in an “ethnographic
codex,” was that produced by the Franciscan friar Bernardino de Sahagún
and his Nahua collaborators and scribes during the middle to late sixteenth
century. Combining Nahuatl text with pictorial imagery, this vast corpus of
the Florentine Codex and Primeros Memoriales contains detailed information
on matters such as gods and rituals, myths, rulership, kinship, ethnic groups,
economic production, markets, natural history, and the Spanish conquest
from the native point of view – indeed, anything (and more) that might be
found in a modern-day ethnography (Sahagún 1950–1982, 1993; Baird 1993;
León-Portilla 2002). While the images contain Spanish artistic and substantive elements (such as perspective and Spanish clothing and tools), they also
are enriched throughout with Aztec glyphs that embellish the images with
intriguing details6 (Figure 1.4).

8

Setting the Stage

Figure C1.1. The founding of Tenochtitlan as depicted in the Codex Mendoza.
(From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 1r.)

Case 1.1 How It Survived 1:The Codex Mendoza
Precious little is known of the provenience of any of the pre-Columbian and
colonial codices. However, the partially known and rather haphazard history of
one pictorial manuscript exemplifies the conditions under which such documents have survived – and highlights the astounding fact that any have survived
at all.
It was twenty years after Tenochtitlan fell at the hands of Hernán Cortés and
his thousands of native allies. King Charles I of Spain (Charles V, Holy Roman
Emperor) demanded to know more precisely what his military forces had
recently acquired. Like other conquered areas in the Americas, his new territory
in central Mexico, now the colonial world of New Spain, must be governed, its

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
resources exploited, and its native people converted to Christianity. To obtain
necessary information, the king’s representative in New Spain (Viceroy Antonio
de Mendoza) commissioned the production of a pictorial codex, which consisted of three parts: a history of Aztec conquests, tributes paid to the Aztecs by
geographical province, and an account of Aztec daily life, from cradle to grave.
A probable history of this Codex Mendoza can be re-created, although “the
evidence is often ambiguous and conflicting” (Nicholson 1992: 10). The year
was most likely 1541, and the place was colonial Mexico City, built atop the
vanquished Mexica capital city of Tenochtitlan. The manuscript’s creation
relied on several skilled native scribes, who copied the first two parts from preconquest pictorials but possibly developed the third part anew. Their efforts
were overseen by one or more Spanish clerics, who discussed the pictorial content with the scribes and added glosses in Nahuatl and Spanish, and somewhat
more extended explanations in Spanish.
As time passed, the job became more hurried, since it was necessary to send
the document by mule train from the highland Basin of Mexico down to
coastal Veracruz in time to catch the scheduled sailing of the treasure ships to
Spain. As fate would have it, somewhere on the high seas the ship was set upon
by French men-of-war; the French succeeded in taking the Spanish ship along
with the Codex Mendoza and unknown other treasures. The next we know,
the codex was in the hands of the French king’s cosmographer, André Thevet,
who twice signed the manuscript in 1553. It then appears that the codex was
purchased in 1587 by the Englishman Richard Hakluyt for 20 French crowns –
Thevet and Hakluyt were acquainted, both being avid collectors and disseminators of travelers’ accounts. Hakluyt retained the codex until his death in 1616,
willing it to Samuel Purchas. When Purchas died in 1626, his son inherited the
document, which somehow passed by 1654 to Purchas’s friend and collector,
Englishman John Selden. Five years later it entered the Bodleian Library in
Oxford, England, with two other of Selden’s Mexican manuscripts. There it
languished until seeing the light of publication in Lord Kingsborough’s Antiquities of Mexico (1831–1848). It resides in the Bodleian still.

Beyond the pictorial, much of the oral and written record of this partially
lost, partially transformed world became embedded in a variety of Spanish and
Nahuatl documents produced in great abundance during the colonial period
in Mexico. While sometimes augmented by pictorial images, these documents
were primarily textual and were composed in the alphabetic writing introduced by the Spaniards.
SPANISH DOCUMENTS

Written sources reflecting Aztec life but composed in the Spanish language
include eyewitness accounts of the Spanish conquest, early colonial chronicles
and histories, and censuses and other administrative, legal, and economic documentation. The five letters of Hernán Cortés (1928) and the “true”7 history of
the conquest by one of his soldiers, Bernal Díaz del Castillo (1963), are well

9

10

Setting the Stage
known and have been heavily mined for information on the Aztecs. Cortés’s
letters-dispatches were written to the Spanish monarch as the conquest itself
was going on; Díaz del Castillo’s account was composed by memory by the
aging conquistador more than forty years after the events he describes. Although
both of these contain their own biases, they also provide the discerning reader
with intriguing details of Aztec life at the point of contact with the Spaniards.
These accounts are augmented by the shorter and less-used relations of Andrés
de Tapia (1993), Francisco de Aguilar (1993), and an “Anonymous Conqueror”
(1971), whose actual participation in the conquest has been questioned (Warren
1973: 67–68).
Shortly after the conquest and throughout the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries, Spanish friars began accumulating and recording detailed
information on indigenous history and culture, with the primary purpose
of aiding their conversion activities. A pioneer among these was Andrés de
Olmos, whose huehuetlatolli8 and 1547 grammar (1972) are all that has survived – his compendious works were already lost in the sixteenth century.
However, he provided the inspiration for later sixteenth-century writers
such as Toribio de Benavente (Motolinía 1969, 1971), Jerónimo de Mendieta
(1980), Juan de Torquemada (1969), and our renowned Franciscan Bernardino
de Sahagún, who also wrote an extended paraphrase of his monumental
Nahuatl-language work (1956). Another track of sixteenth-century colonial
writers who drew on each other’s work (or some earlier sources) included
Diego Durán (1971, 1994), a Dominican friar who compiled an Aztec imperial history as well as an account of native gods and rituals; Fernando Alvarado
Tezozomoc (1975a, 1975b); José de Acosta (2002); and Juan de Tovar (Kubler
and Gibson 1951).9
A great deal of secular writing produced in the colonial sixteenth and seventeenth centuries considerably augments our understanding of pre-conquest
Aztec life. These range from the lawyer and judge Alonso de Zorita’s relation
written “to give the Spanish Crown information regarding the government
and tribute system of the Indians” (Warren 1973: 73) to the protomédico general Francisco Hernández’s wide-ranging natural history (1959). This latter
investigator traveled in New Spain from 1571 to 1577 recording descriptive
information on native plants and animals, interspersing interesting details on
native customs along the way.10 Another particularly useful collection of documents is the Relaciones geográficas of the latter half of the sixteenth century
(1578–1585); some of these textual sources include interesting and informative maps (Mundy 1996). The Spanish crown was understandably interested
in the nature and value of its new holdings across the sea, and these geographic relations were designed to inform and enlighten the Spanish Council
of the Indies. They consisted of a standard questionnaire carried by Spanish
officials to communities throughout Spain’s new realm. Some of the most
relevant questions (and responses) pertained to local demography and history,

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World

Figure 1.4. A feather prepared for an elaborate mosaic by a
skilled featherworker is identified as that of a green tzinitzcan
(trogonorus) bird by the inclusion of a human rear end,
representing the sound tzin-. (After Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 9, illus. 108. Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

others to regional resources and trade, and still others to religious inclinations (Acuña 1982–1988; Cline 1964). Beyond these relations, the archives are
bursting with other official reports, tax records, and legal records that embed
“the complaints and pleadings of indigenous litigants, drawings of domestic
compounds, genealogies, wills, and the testimony of hundreds of sixteenthand seventeenth-century Indians” (Kellogg 1995: 36).
Some mestizos wrote important historical chronicles in Spanish in the
late sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries. Foremost among these were
Fernando de Alva Ixtlilxochitl (1965), a descendant of the pre-Hispanic rulers of Texcoco; Juan Bautista Pomar (1891), likewise a Texcocan royal descendant; and Diego Muñoz Camargo (1947), a Tlaxcallan noble. Each of these was
interested chiefly in promoting the historical legitimacy and contemporary
primacy of his own city-state under the new colonial political regime.
NAHUATL DOCUMENTS

The Spanish friars were diligent in teaching native nobles the alphabetic style
of Spanish writing. By a decade following the conquest, literacy among the
natives took a new form, many Aztec scribes having made the transition from
glyph and oral rendition to alphabet. As a result, an impressively large and rich
corpus of documents was composed alphabetically in the Nahuatl language.
Major chronicles, histories, and oral literary forms were transcribed into this
format, Christian catechisms and scripts were produced for purposes of conversion, and myriad Nahuatl-language documents recording day-to-day matters such as lawsuits, censuses, land disputes and other complaints, inheritance,
town council meetings, market taxes, and even personal letters found useful
niches in the colonial world.
Three particularly significant histories, as chronicles or annals, survive in
the Nahuatl language. The most extensive of these was produced in a series
of documents by a Chalcan with the formidable name of Don Domingo de
San Antón Muñón Chimalpahin Quauhtlehuanitzin – Chimalpahin for short
(Schroeder 1991; Lockhart et al. 2006). The Codex Chimalpopoca, hailing from
the more northerly Basin of Mexico town of Cuauhtitlan, provides a yearcount record from the perspective of that town (Bierhorst 1992), and Fernando

11

12

Setting the Stage
Alvarado Tezozomoc’s Crónica mexicayotl (1975b) extols a Mexica historical
perspective. Like the Spanish-language chronicles, each of these writers promotes his own community, its image, and its supreme importance.
The Aztecs relied on rich oral traditions, often prompted by reference to
specific pictorial codices. Beyond the huehuetlatolli, which have been preserved
in several early sources, Aztec oral renditions have survived in the form of
songs and poems. The longtime master of this genre is Miguel León-Portilla,
who has suggested identifications of several notable Aztec poets (1992). The
poems and songs, some of which would have been accompanied by music and
dance, provide a window through which to glimpse some of the deeper aspects
of Aztec culture – the people’s delights and dreams, their fears and fates. And
since the native people often collaborated with Christian friars in producing
Catholic catechisms and other texts, Nahuatl metaphors and imagery, reflecting indigenous cultural themes and priorities, frequently peek through much
of this literature and find niches in elaborate colonial theatrical productions
and spectacles (Burkhart 1996, 2011; Sell and Burkhart 2004; Motolinía 1969).
An altogether different style of documentation involves notarial or civil
records written in Nahuatl – and there are a great many of these. Ranging
from wills to censuses to town council minutes, these documents enrich our
understanding of such matters as family relations, social status rules and tensions, land use, and moral expectations. Through these sources we are able
to enter the lives of a broad range of individuals, entwined in a great variety of relationships and enmeshed in very human circumstances of the “daily
life” genre. So the exasperation of a father with his errant son emerges in the
father’s will, the frustration of nobles with uppity entrepreneurial commoners
appears in a town council’s minutes, and anger over the behavior of an allegedly abusive priest is reported in a formal complaint: all of these and more
were composed in the Nahuatl language and provide an enormous corpus of
fascinating data documenting colonial life and also revealing patterns harking
back to pre-conquest times (Anderson et al. 1976; Lockhart 1992; Lockhart
et al. 1986; Haskett 1991; Cline 1993; Cline and León-Portilla 1984; Schroeder
et al. 1997; Horn 1997; Wood 2003).
ASSESSING THE DOCUMENTARY RECORD

Each of these styles of documentation has its advantages and cautions.The most
obvious advantage is the richness, depth, abundance, and diversity of the documentation, allowing for fruitful investigations into almost all walks of Aztec life.
We can learn of nobles and commoners (and the relationships among them),
of agriculture and crafts, of men and women, of adults and children, and of
people associated with different ethnicities. We can map out the marketplace,
perceive the dynamics of palace life, envision flamboyant ceremonies, meet the
gods and goddesses, comprehend sophisticated calendrics and medicine, understand the moral underpinnings of daily social life, and appreciate the richness

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
of the Nahuatl language through speeches, poetry, and songs. Fortunately, some
of the documents are hybrids. For example, some pictorial codices composed
with native glyphs (such as the Matrícula de Tributos) were later (or at the same
time) augmented by Nahuatl and/or Spanish alphabetic glosses or explanations.
Another example is Sahagún’s Florentine Codex, which is based on information
provided orally and pictorially by knowledgeable Nahuas and contains alphabetically written Nahuatl text with accompanying pictorial images, all of this
later augmented by a Spanish version also prepared by the good friar.These and
other additions help clarify meaning and reduce ambiguity, although one must
beware of possible mistakes (see note 5).
On the downside, all written records are produced for a reason, and in
those reasons we frequently find biases. Documents can be biased in a number
of ways. Some documents serve as instruments of purposeful manipulation
and promotion: this expectedly occurs in the letters of Hernán Cortés to the
Spanish monarch and later in counter-statements presented by one of his conquistadores, Bernal Díaz del Castillo. Biases are frequently explicit in Spanish
religious documents condemning indigenous religious practices and beliefs.
Biases can also take the form of perspective: Alva Ixtlilxochitl necessarily writes
from his noble Texcocan viewpoint, Chimalpahin from his noble Chalcan one.
Much of our documentary record derives from politically dominant centers
and reflects the interests and perspectives of an urban and elite stratum of society. Related to this is another imbalance, an ethnic one. For instance, we know
how the Mexica perceived the neighboring Otomí (as “blockheads,” they said),
yet we do not know if the Otomí characterized the Mexica in similar terms.
Nonetheless, recent work with Nahuatl civil records and the occasional emergence of regional documents such as the Códice de Xicotepec (Stresser-Péan
1995) help balance this state of affairs.
In another vein, there is some danger in generalizing from specific statements. Chronicles, histories, and other relations necessarily derive from specific
localities and groups – to what extent do the conditions they relate pertain to
other communities and groups? And, on a somewhat different scale, when we
learn that Aztec merchants were sent by King Ahuitzotl to coastal regions to
trade his precious goods, was this a onetime event or representative of a frequent occurrence? The documentary record is fragmentary and thus unclear
on many of these issues. Finally, since some sixteenth-century records derive
from one another, as previously described, their relationships must be clearly
understood before being considered corroborative sources.
There are some disappointments. For instance, by his own admission, Bernal
Díaz del Castillo states, “Do not be surprised, however, if I do not describe
them [the great temple’s surroundings] as accurately as I might, for I had
other thoughts in my head at the time than that of telling a story. I was more
concerned with my military duties and the orders my Captain had given me”
(1963: 238). His circumstances were understandable.

13

14

Setting the Stage

Figure 1.5. Schematic layout of Tenochtitlan’s ceremonial precinct. (From McEwan
and López Luján 2009: 132. Courtesy Trustees of the British Museum.)

Despite its limitations, this rich ethnohistoric record has yielded a wealth
of information on Aztec life, especially for the time immediately prior to the
Spanish conquest. Ethnohistoric research has a long and distinguished history in
Mesoamerica generally (see Cline 1973; Nicholson 1975). During the past two
decades, previously untapped documentary sources have come to light, and many
known documents have become increasingly available, most with new translations and extended commentaries.With this expanded data base, ethnohistorians
have turned their attention to more sophisticated contextual analyses of pictorial
manuscripts and textual records; to unraveling the nature of indigenous cultures
both before and after the Spanish conquest; to a better understanding of the

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
Spanish conquest itself; and to formulating interpretations of native life based on
evolving perspectives in anthropology, history, and art history (Berdan 2009b).
For instance, the ethnohistoric record now has sufficient depth (especially with
post-conquest documents) to make the application of agency theory11 a viable
approach, enabling researchers to “examine the potential and constraints of specific cases where agency, structure and power intersect” (Johnson 2004: 246).
Approached critically, the rich and diverse written record has the potential to capture much of the ancient Aztec way of life, almost ethnographically.
However, it is still an incomplete and unbalanced record. Fortunately, additional and quite different sources of data are available from archaeological and
art historical research on immovable physical remains and portable artifacts,
from the physical anthropological examination of human remains, and from
ethnographic and linguistic studies of present-day descendants of the ancient
Aztecs and their neighbors.

Physical Remains: Architecture and Artifacts
ARCHITECTURE

Stationary physical remains constitute an important source of archaeological information. Fortunately, the Aztecs were builders on a grand scale. And
their cities proudly exhibited many monumental public buildings. These
stone structures inevitably included temples, palaces, ballcourts, shrines, and
altars (Figure 1.5).12 Large sacrificial stones, sweatbaths (temazcalli), skull racks
(tzompantli), and pavements were also common features in urban settings.
Tenochtitlan, atypically large, contained additional buildings such as a priestly
school (calmecac) and warriors’ assembly chambers in its central sacred precinct.
Rarely, these ceremonial and political districts were walled, separating them
from the more mundane realms of urban life. Large and small settlements
contained residential areas with either stone housing (for elites) or houses constructed of less resilient adobe bricks or wood and thatch (for commoners).
Often public and private stone structures retain sufficient structural integrity
to reveal information on matters such as building periods, functions, associations with other structures, astronomical orientations, and building materials
and techniques. Some also retain sculptural elements and/or mural fragments,
yielding further cultural information and affording a look at the building’s
decorative presentation.13 In the case of lower-status housing, only the foundations remain, nonetheless yielding data on matters such as housing plans and
layouts, domestic activities, and building materials (Smith 2008: 163–166).
The Aztec (indeed, Mesoamerican) preoccupation with controlling water is
evidenced by the massive efforts expended on constructing aqueducts, canals,
check dams, and hillside terracing.Various remnants of these still exist; an idea
of the scale and sophistication of Aztec hydraulic engineering can be appreciated today at the pleasure gardens of Tetzcotzinco (Parsons 2002).

15

16

Setting the Stage

the fate of material objects
Other pre-conquest remains are more or less portable artifacts, to be uncovered
or recovered archaeologically, or found unprovenienced in museum or other
collections. From the perspective of one art historian, artistic material remains
can be classed as monumental sculpture (see Case 1.2), codices, stone sculpture,
lapidary arts, wood sculpture, featherwork, textiles, and objects made from clay,
gold, dough, resin, and paper (Pasztory 1983: 74–79). These were prominent in
the more public and elite environments. Just as significant are objects of more
common, everyday use such as spindle whorls, stone blades, stone and ceramic
food-processing implements such as manos, metates, and molcajetes, and all manner of utilitarian ceramics such as plates and drinking vessels (Figure 1.6).
Whether extravagant or utilitarian, objects uncovered in situ and often associated with ancient structures range from the thousands of objects found in
the more than 162 ritual deposits (Figure 1.7) around Tenochtitlan’s Templo
Mayor (López Luján 2005, personal communication 2010), to concentrated
obsidian blades and associated debitage in an Otompan household workshop
(Charlton et al. 1991), to cooking pots, spindle whorls, and ceramic figurines
in a Morelos commoner house (Smith 2008: 167–170). These and other controlled excavations have uncovered material remains with careful attention to
context and chronology. Other professional archaeological research endeavors
have recovered artifacts through extended surface surveys, appropriate in cases
where settlement patterns and other issues are investigated over broad areas
(see Sanders et al. 1979; Nichols 2004). In both types of research, data on material objects are meticulously recorded to squeeze out the greatest amount of
information on their context, history, function, and meaning and to provide
the greatest potential for reconstructing ancient lifeways.
Many objects, however, have no clear provenience or history. Some of these,
such as the nine turquoise mosaics in the British Museum, the three feathered
masterpieces in Vienna, and the Matrícula de Tributos in Mexico City, are rightfully renowned as both cultural pieces and objects of fine art. Others are less
well known but no less significant in the cultural record despite their lack of
provenience.
The Spanish conquest itself contributed to the dispersal of many high-end
Aztec-produced objects. Cortés (1928: 381–382) lists the many precious objects
he sent to King Charles during the conquest. Also, at the end of the conquest,
he states that “[a]mong the other booty taken from the city were many golden
shields, crests and plumes, and other such marvelous things that they could not
be described in writing nor comprehended unless they were actually seen”
(ibid.: 229).14 He decided to send these treasures as a whole to the king. At
least some major objects were displayed in an exhibition in Brussels in the year
1520. They were described with awe by the well-known artist Albrecht Dürer,
who “marveled at the subtle intellects of men in foreign parts” (Keen 1971: 69).

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World

Figure 1.6. Vessels for drinking pulque (left) and cacao (right). (Courtesy National
Museum of the American Indian, Smithsonian Institution, nos. 002635 and 178070.
Photograph by Jennifer Berdan.)

Figure 1.7. Golden eagle bones and decorated knives in offering 125, Tenochtitlan’s
Templo Mayor precinct. (Photograph by Leonardo López Luján. Reproducción autorizada por el Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia.)

17

18

Setting the Stage

Figure C1.2. The renowned Aztec Calendar (or Sun) Stone. (Drawing by Emily
Umberger. Reproduced with permission.)

Case 1.2 How It Survived 2:The Aztec Calendar Stone
Archaeologists excavating intact sites enjoy the luxury of discovering and
unearthing ancient materials that have been largely untouched since they were
deposited. In short, they are found much as they were left behind: in situ and
conveniently provenienced. Not so, however, with a great many valuable artifacts that have found their way into museums or other collections with little
known of their origins, history, or cultural affiliations.
To some extent, this is the case with one of the most famous of all Aztec
monuments, the so-called Calendar Stone or Sun Stone. Today it resides in the
Museo Nacional de Antropología in Mexico City, and its history is no less fascinating and circuitous than that of the Codex Mendoza (Case 1.1).
A reconstructed history of this monument goes rather like this (based on
the meticulous research of Leonardo López Luján 2008 and Eduardo Matos
Moctezuma and Felipe Solís 2004). The Calendar Stone first came into schol-

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
arly view on December 17, 1790, approximately halfway through its long
history. During leveling and repaving work on Mexico City’s Zocalo, it was
discovered facedown just west of the Viceregal Palace. It was pulled to a vertical position, where it was first examined by archaeologists. It stayed there
only until July 2, 1791, when it was moved to the cathedral. There it was set
into the southwest tower, facing west, where it could be easily viewed. Such
ready accessibility brought extensive wear and tear to the monument, and it
clearly suffered from exposure to the elements (both human and natural). So
in August 1885, this national icon was removed to the early Museo Nacional, where it held pride of place in the monolithic gallery (a journey that
required considerable human effort and ingenuity, fifteen days, and 600 pesos).
On June 27, 1964, it was finally transferred to the new Museo Nacional de
Antropología in Chapultepec Park (this journey took only one hour, fifteen
minutes). It rests there today, prominently displayed.
This portion of the history of the Calendar Stone is well documented. But
what about its prior life, before 1790? What do we know about its manufacture, use, and meaning during Aztec times? The early centuries of Calendar
Stone history depend heavily on historical records, interpretations, and speculations.
On the basis of the specific type of stone and documentary suggestions, it is
likely that the stone originated in the southern Basin of Mexico, from which
it was dragged 12–22 kilometers to Tenochtitlan’s ceremonial precinct. This
probably occurred in the middle years of the Aztec Empire, perhaps during
the reign of Axayacatl (1469–1481). Tenochtitlan’s imperial ruler surely had
the power to acquire and transport such a mammoth stone (weighing in at
24.5 tons and measuring 3.5 meters in diameter), and its sculptural style is
representative of the Aztec imperial period. It must have been located prominently in the ceremonial precinct, laid horizontally and associated with ritual
human sacrifices on a nearby temalacatl (stone whorl, or base for gladiatorial
sacrifices). It has been suggested that it was used either as a quauhxicalli (eagle
vessel, or depository for sacrificial hearts) or as a base for the final sacrifice of
a wounded gladiatorial combatant (Matos Moctezuma and Solís 2004: 37).
Its exact location at that time is unknown, but apparently it was moved a
few hundred meters south of the precinct just after the Spanish conquest:
the Spaniards laid it faceup near the Viceregal Palace. Considered a bad influence by Spanish religious officials, the stone was buried facedown sometime
between 1551 and 1572, where it lay until it was discovered in 1790.While
there is considerable history here, the stone’s origins, imperial history, and
context are lost.Where was it carved: on site or in Tenochtitlan? Was this really
the rock moved from the southern Basin of Mexico recorded in the colonial
histories? Where did it sit in the ceremonial precinct? How was it used? While
answers to these questions evade us, the value of the monument is nonetheless inestimable. In particular, studies of its sculptural style and symbolism have
been legion and have served as a window into the worldview of the Mexica
(see Nicholson 1993).

19

20

Setting the Stage
Not only Cortés sent booty home – his compatriots also sent large quantities of precious Aztec objects to individuals and religious institutions in Spain.
The objects themselves and their subsequent histories are mostly lost (Saville
1920: 8–104). Also lost or unidentified in collections are the great many objects
unearthed by Spaniards in the aftermath of the conquest as they laid the foundations for their new buildings in place of the Aztec ones:
[W]hen the ground was excavated to lay a foundation, gold and silver and
chalchihuites ... were found in great quantities; and a settler in Mexico
who built on another part of the site found the same. The officers of His
Majesty’s Treasury demanded this find as rightfully belonging to the King,
and there was a lawsuit about it. I do not remember what the outcome was,
only that they asked for information from the Caciques and dignitaries of
Mexico. (Bernal Díaz del Castillo 1963: 238–239; writing ca. 1568)

This is largely the world of “treasures,” but less spectacular artifacts, including
massive quantities of pottery sherds and other utilitarian objects found in structures, trash heaps, and corn fields also yield significant cultural information and
have captured archaeological interest more recently. Many of these objects help
reconstruct the everyday lives of nonelite members of the society.
ASSESSING THE REMAINS

As with the ethnohistorical documents, the archaeological record has advantages and cautions. A major advantage is that, unlike documents, archaeological remains are “quite unlikely to be manipulated by individuals with bias
or vested interest” (Barber and Berdan 1998: 260). That is, a palace may be
designed to display wealth and impress others at the time of its actual use, but
once it has fallen into disuse and covered by subsequent structures, its essentials
will be found much as they were left behind. A commoner trash heap was
not intended to impress or deceive, and the archaeologist will find it much as
it was deposited in antiquity.15 Nonetheless, consideration should be made for
the possibility of “structured deposition,” or the deliberate deposition of items
that may appear as trash or rubbish (Cool 2006: 13–14). In analyzing remains,
modern archaeologists have at their command a variety of productive research
strategies, including controlled excavation, intensive survey and surface collection, materials analysis, household archaeology, and ethnoarchaeology (Nichols
2004: 275).
A further advantage is the time depth afforded by archaeology and the ability
to construct meaningful chronologies based on sequential deposits of material
remains. Finally, archaeology focuses on material remains; actual structures and
objects can yield information neglected or recorded only scantily in historic
documents (see Case 4.1).These include matters such as detailed technological
processes and tool uses, patterns of trade, standards of living under changing
conditions, and economic investments in ritual activities. For instance, Michael
Smith (2008: 172–173) has ascertained on the basis of house construction and

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
artifact assemblages that an Aztec rural peasant’s life was not so different from
that of an urban commoner. We can guess this from the documents, but they
cannot tell us this with as much assurance as can the material record.
Yet, like the documentary record, the archaeological record is incomplete
and unbalanced. A full archaeological record of a complete Aztec site remains
a dream. Indeed, Aztec city-states with reasonably intact monumental architecture (such as Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco) tend to lack available and preserved
residential remains; on the other hand, where residential areas are accessible
and have been excavated (such as at Otompan and Huexotla), few if any monumental architectural remains are available (Smith 2008: 20–21). Much of this
is due to the impact of subsequent occupations: beginning with the Spaniards,
new residents readily built their settlements atop existing Aztec cities and
communities (sometimes reusing stones from Aztec structures), and many of
these ancient locales are buried beneath today’s cities, towns, plazas, and roads.
Accessibility is an issue. On a February morning in 1978, it was happenstance
that opened a substantial portion of downtown Mexico City to archaeological
investigation, soon to reveal the phenomenal Aztec Templo Mayor and much
of its surrounding ceremonial precinct. This project continues to unveil stupendous and surprising remains (e.g., Figures 1.7 and 7.2; Matos Moctezuma
and López Luján 2007).
A further imbalance in the archaeological record involves perishability –
some materials like textiles and feathers are particularly fragile, and objects
made of these materials rarely survive in the environmental conditions of central and southern Mexico. Indeed, of the countless objects of exquisite featherwork produced by the pre-conquest Aztecs, a mere seven can be counted in
museums today.16 Balancing this loss is the fact that many native activities, such
as featherworking, continued in colonial times – the iconography changed,
but the technology persisted, and we have many extant examples of colonial
featherwork. Additionally, the archaeological record tends to come up short
in “abstract realms of beliefs and language, social realms of activities and relations, ephemeral events such as market days (where the plaza is swept clean
after every event), and everyday matters such as personal hygiene and styles
of greeting” (Berdan 2005: 18). Archaeological information is also selective in
another way: we may ask, for instance, how representative of a household’s
activities are the remains left behind in its trash heap. What other items, perhaps more valuable to the householder, are we missing?
Archaeological control of ancient Aztec artifacts is a fairly recent accomplishment, and many objects were removed from their contexts during the preceding five centuries. Nonetheless, we spend a good deal of time and energy
with these objects trying to determine their places of origin, chronologies, and
cultural associations. Some objects, such as the so-called mantle of Moctezuma
and a spun feather textile have sat, misidentified, in museums for long periods of time.17 Often accompanied by a great deal of speculation, lack of clear

21

22

Setting the Stage

Figure 1.8. Bark beater
currently in use in San
Pablito, Puebla, Mexico.
(Photograph by Frances
Berdan.)

provenience of such objects (and they are astoundingly numerous) diminishes
their overall role in reconstructing ancient life. However, they should not be
dismissed, as they carry other important information, such as details on technological processes and examples of abstract symbolism.18

Human Remains
Quite different information can be gleaned from actual human remains, deposited as offerings or burials. These are particularly informative in the recent
excavations at Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor and at Tlatelolco’s central precinct.
In the Tenochtitlan excavations, offerings included some burials of elite personages who were ritually buried following cremation. But the majority of
human remains consisted of sacrificed individuals, beheaded and some with
their throats cut (López Luján 1999: 39, 42, 46; 2005: 180–183, 202–209). One

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
Templo Mayor offering (number 48) included the remains of some forty-five
children sacrificed to the god Tlaloc (González Torres 2003: 40).The Tlatelolco
project has yielded thousands of human burials, ritually deposited or sacrificially offered (López Luján 1999: 34; Guilleim Arroyo 1999, 2008a; Matos
Moctezuma 2008; Roman Berrelleza 1987, 1991). And excavations at Late
Postclassic Zultepec, northwest of Tlaxcallan, have yielded fourteen human
skulls with perforations indicating that they were displayed on a skull rack
(Martínez Vargas 2003).19 Human remains deposited in the ceremonial precincts of Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco have yielded valuable information on the
circumstances of life and death of the individuals involved: their age, gender,
medical conditions, and context and manner of death. They shed particular
light on the Aztec practice of human sacrifice.
Modern technology has made it possible to recover and identify biological
remains of a different type – human blood. Evidence of human blood residue
in the House of Eagles in the Tenochtitlan ceremonial precinct point to bloodletting activities in these military chambers (López Luján 2006).

The Value of Ethnography
Some ingredients of native life have survived the centuries in remarkably
sound fashion, primarily in outlying areas of the Aztec realm. These can be
(and have been) documented ethnographically. This is particularly true in
the cultural realms of language and technology. Today, about a million and a
half people still speak Nahuatl or Nahuat, albeit with some expected modifications, such as the addition of Spanish loan words and constantly changing colloquialisms. The amount of rich cultural data embedded in language
cannot be underestimated; for instance, the use of metaphors, kinship terms,
and curing techniques all reveal long-standing traditions (e.g., Lewis 1951;
Sandstrom 1991; Ruiz Rivera 2001). But the most overt relations with the past
can be seen in the material, technological world – in the manos and metates for
grinding maize, in the backstrap looms for weaving cloth, in the bark beaters
for making amate paper, in the hoes and digging sticks for work in the agricultural fields (Figure 1.8). While the use of these traditional tools (many of
them modified)20 is on the wane in this industrial age, their continued use
offers valuable cultural details on long-standing traditions (see Case 1.3). The
obvious advantage of ethnographic data is its depth and subtlety of information, the ability to discover particulars not present in the archaeological or
ethnohistorical records. In addition to well-known ethnographic pitfalls such
as informant bias and self-interest, the most obvious caution here involves
the changes wrought by time. Five hundred years of sometimes dramatic cultural, economic, social, and political changes in Mexico have left their mark
on even the most remote indigenous villagers, and all are integrated into the
global, industrial world.21

23

24

Setting the Stage

Figure C1.3. A twentiethcentury Nahua woman
weaving on a backstrap
loom in the Sierra Norte de
Puebla, Mexico. (Photograph
by Frances Berdan.)

Case 1.3 How It Survived 3:The Backstrap Loom
The backstrap loom is an ancient tool in Mesoamerica. Seen on Jaina (Maya)
figurines as early as the Classic period, illustrations of women weaving on
the loom are found often in Postclassic codices and colonial pictorials. While
informative, sculptures and pictures are static; they are limited in the information they can convey about just how one went about weaving on such an
apparatus. And being essentially bundles of sticks, looms leave little behind for
the archaeologist. Fortunately, many women today in indigenous communities in Mexico and Guatemala continue to weave on backstrap looms and
provide us with a font of information on how this process works (and how it
was likely to have worked in the past).
The production of cloth on backstrap looms exhibits a great deal of continuity from pre-Columbian to modern times.Women are the weavers, then
and now. Using a backstrap loom, they easily incorporate weaving into their
other household activities and responsibilities (i.e., the work can be readily
put down and picked back up). The loom equipment used today closely
resembles that depicted in the sixteenth-century pictorial codices. What is
missing in the early images, however, is information on matters such as the
actual process of production, the time involved in weaving a piece of cloth,

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
the learning process, weaving terminology, and symbolism in woven designs.
Using a technology resembling that of past weavers, today’s weavers can
enlighten us about these matters. For instance, the sixteenth-century Codex
Mendoza (see Case 1.1) states in a Spanish gloss that a girl mastered weaving skills at age 14. How general is that statement, and when did the girl
begin to learn to weave? The answers are suggested ethnographically: when
I asked contemporary villagers at what age they became good weavers, they
consistently (and independently) answered “age 14.” This was consistency
beyond my wildest dreams! They also said that they began learning at age 5,
information not available in other documentation. On another dimension,
when asked about the time involved in weaving a certain length of cloth,
the women were uncertain, as weaving was so fully integrated into other
household activities – they had difficulty arriving at a figure and, interestingly, did not think the matter particularly important. This may reflect
long-standing, traditional approaches to the relationship between time and
economic production. And as for designs, some animal figures woven into
the cloth were identified as nahualli (animal spirit companions), an ancient
concept.Yet five centuries have passed since weavers worked in the time
of Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin. How closely does the contemporary scene
resemble the Aztec past? While remarkably tenacious, as we have seen, this
bit of culture has undergone changes over that time. Most of the thread
is now store-bought rather than hand-spun, wool has been added to the
looms, new designs have been incorporated into the weavers’ repertoires,
and fewer and fewer girls are learning the skills. Yet these are details compared with the fundamental retention of the basic technology, process, and
approach to backstrap weaving. Ethnographic research reveals much about
this (and other) arenas of life, expanding and enriching our understanding
of the ancient mode of living.

INTERPRETING THE AZTEC WORLD

Our vision and understanding of Aztec culture have changed dramatically since
the “first encounters” between Europeans and Aztecs. Inescapably, scholarly
interpretations of growing mounds of data on this civilization have been influenced by changing theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches
embedded in the fields of archaeology, ethnohistory, art history, and ethnography.These interpretations cluster around four major themes: complexity, diversity, interaction, and causality.

Complexity
Proposals about the nature of Aztec society entered the anthropological world
in the nineteenth century when Lewis Henry Morgan (1878) described it

25

26

Setting the Stage
as a “clan-based military democracy in the middle stage of barbarism” in his
conceptualization of general evolution (Carrasco 1971). Adolf Bandelier furthered Morgan’s conclusions, continuing to portray Aztec society as a tribal
democracy, and it was not until the 1930s that Aztec scholars began to consistently dispute this claim. Nonetheless, some vestiges of this intellectual legacy persisted, and in the mid-twentieth century the complexity of the Aztecs
remained a lingering issue. Adding to this persistence was Gelb’s (1952) characterization of the Aztec writing system as a “forerunner of writing” and even
Gibson’s (1964) designation of major ethnic groups in the pre-conquest Basin
of Mexico as “tribes.” Another contributing factor has been the near invisibility
of archaeological evidence for an Aztec presence beyond the Basin of Mexico.
Today, however, intervening decades of problem-oriented interdisciplinary
research have revealed the Late Postclassic Aztecs as a full-blown civilization,
state, and empire, with a demonstrable social hierarchy, political centralization,
economic specialization, and urbanism. This is now generally accepted, with
the caveat that Aztec complexity increased during its own history and these
people exhibited less complexity in earlier times than later on.
This does not mean that there was a necessary progression in all of these
central Mexican societies toward increasing hierarchical depth and political
centralization. An “alternative pathways to complexity” theoretical approach
has proved especially useful in revealing variations in the complexity of political developments in the central Mexican highlands and the realm of the Aztec
Empire generally (see Chapter 5). This approach allows us to think outside
the box of singular “vertical political hierarchies” and toward a recognition
of variation in political styles. And political variation was indeed a significant
feature of central Mexico during the Late Postclassic period (Fargher et al.
2011a: 306).

Diversity and Variation
The very use of the term “Aztec” suggests commonalities and uniformities
throughout central Mexico during Late Postclassic times. In recent years, this
term has been used with increasing caution and in restricted contexts (see
note on terminologies at the beginning of this book). We may speak of the
“Aztec Empire” in the same sense that one speaks of the Roman Empire or
the Inca Empire: it denotes those in power.The term “Aztec” also has utility in
referring to archaeological periods, as well as applicability in terms of broadly
shared cultural features. Yet in the realm of actual relationships and behaviors,
in everyday life and on the ground as it were, individuals and groups did not
refer to themselves as “Aztecs,” but rather took their identities from their calpolli, altepetl, or ethnicity (Chapters 2, 5, and 6). In accordance with relatively
recent trends in anthropology generally, it has become more and more common (and useful) to refer to Late Postclassic central Mexican peoples according

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
to their own emic designations – especially neighborhoods, city-states, and
ethnic affiliations (see Chapter 2; Lockhart 1992; Berdan et al. 2008).
This is a particularly meaningful approach: not only does it allow for the
insider’s perspective, but it also has led to a clearer understanding of local
and regional variations and relationships among groups that clearly identified
themselves as distinct from their neighbors.This focus on variation now allows
us to see that the Tlaxcallan state was organized according to significantly different principles than the Mexica one (although people in both states spoke
Nahuatl; see Case 8.3; Fargher et al. 2011a, 2011b).Throughout central Mexico,
matters such as dynastic successions, marriage alliances, community layouts,
and religious celebrations varied in principle and specifics across city-states
and regions (Chapters 3, 5, 6, and 7).
Indeed, local and regional variation has emerged as a major theme in Aztec
studies. It has derived from archaeological, ethnohistoric, and art historical
investigations, and has significantly refined questions (and answers) about cultural dynamics, economic production and distribution, social arrangements,
and political relationships in this complex world. Archaeologically, the first
major breakthrough in documenting Late Postclassic cultural diversity in
central Mexico was the broadly constructed Basin of Mexico survey project
(Sanders et al. 1979), which accumulated vast amounts of data on settlement
patterns, intensive agriculture, population dynamics, and social organization. This project reinforced William Sanders’s (1956) conceptualization of a
“Central Mexican Symbiotic Region”22 construed in cultural ecological terms
and based on environmental complementarity.This set the stage for subsequent
regional studies highlighted by the regional analysis approach exemplified by
Richard Blanton and his colleagues (1993). It also led archaeologists to focus
on rural households as well as urban entities (e.g., Smith 1996a; Evans 1988;
summary in Nichols 2004) and to incorporate ethnographic findings into their
investigations (e.g., Parsons 1996, 2006; Parsons and Parsons 1990). In recent
years, Basin of Mexico archaeological research has revealed significant variation in, for instance, the distribution and organization of economic specializations (e.g., Charlton 1994; Nichols 1994; Brumfiel 1980, 1987, Spence 1985; see
Chapter 5), as well as the size, layout, and structure of city-states (Smith 2008).
According to Nichols (2004: 275), “The most striking finding from the recent
and ongoing research is the heterogeneity of Aztec city-states and their socioeconomic complexity.”
Similarly, in recent years ethnohistorians have become increasingly attuned
to regional variations, which have become incorporated into their writings as
a matter of course (see, e.g., Lockhart 1992; P. Carrasco 1999; Schroeder et al.
1997; Offner 1983; Harvey 1984; Boone 2000a; Smith and Berdan 2003c). One
result of this approach is a refinement in documentary analyses. It has become
increasingly important to associate specific documentation with specific locales,
since matters ranging from dynastic successions to community layouts to the

27

28

Setting the Stage
structure of noble houses to land tenure rules varied from locale to locale and
region to region (e.g., Pohl 2003). This is not always possible: according to
Harvey (1984: 84), “One important deficiency in the general descriptions of
land tenure in the sixteenth century is that there is rare mention of the locality
or region to which a description applied.” Harvey echoes current recognition
of the need to include regional and local variations in our cultural reconstructions. Much the same applies to art historical research, where the identification
of distinctive art styles has contributed substantively to our understanding of
culture change and interactions (e.g., Umberger 1987, 1996, 2008).
The approaches, data, and conclusions of these multidisciplinary research
efforts, with their recognition of diversity and variation, permeate this book.

Interaction
Focusing on city-states (altepetl) as the building blocks of the Aztec Empire has
contributed to a clearer understanding of regional and super-regional interactions and relationships. A hallmark of Late Postclassic times was its political
and economic vitality, a vitality achieved through complex and competitive
relationships. Some of these interactions were hostile, as in the nearly constant
wars. Others were friendlier (but still competitive), for the flip side of warfare was alliance, and alliances were frequently forged. Both types of relationships tended to be unstable and strained (see Chapter 5). Complementing
warfare and alliance were ties established through intricate webs of commerce
(Chapter 4) and through shared symbols and styles (Chapters 7 and 8). And
atop the numerous city-states hovered the imperial structure of the Aztec Triple
Alliance. How can these diverse forms of interaction, between conqueror and
conquered, enemy and friend, merchant and consumer, be described and
explained? And what was the extent of these interactions?
Robert Barlow mapped the geographic extent of the Aztec Empire in 1949,
basing his map on documentary sources. Since that pioneering effort, a great
deal of ethnohistoric and archaeological data have been uncovered, stimulating
substantial refinements of both the map and the administrative nature of the
Aztec Empire (Berdan et al. 1996). These refinements recognize the diversity
of polities throughout the Aztec realm, as well as variable strategies employed
by the imperial powers as they extended their dominion. The Empire pursued
not just direct economic exploitation, but also diplomatic arrangements. It built
on preexisting commercial relations and expanded them with state support. It
fostered social and political interactions through alliances and elite marriages
(Chapters 4–6). All the while, city-states embedded in this hegemonic imperial
realm conducted their own wars, alliances, marriages, and commerce. Some
of these interactions engaged long-standing Aztec enemies. In other words,
the rather straightforward view of imperial life presented in Barlow’s time has
emerged as quite a bit more complex (and interesting) in today’s conceptions.

Discovering, Uncovering, and Interpreting the Aztec World
Our understanding of these relationships has been further enriched and
expanded by the application of a modified world systems model (Chapter 8).
This approach addresses interactions on a grand scale and highlights changing
relations within and beyond the imperial borders (Blanton and Feinman 1984;
Smith and Berdan 2003; Wells 2006). The model, as modified in Smith and
Berdan (2003), recognizes that these relations were not just economic, but also
embraced social, political, and symbolic interactions.

Dynamics and Causality
The Aztec Empire was a secondary state and civilization, not a primary or pristine one, and the models set forth to explain the latter entities do not apply in
this case (see Charlton 2000). By Postclassic times, Mesoamerican people had
a great deal to draw on from a succession of prior civilizations (see Chapter 2
for an elaboration of this theme). They reaped the benefits of the vast amount
of knowledge and the many experiments and mistakes of earlier peoples.They
were definitely familiar with these prior civilizations, and in some cases revered
them highly and drew on them for political and symbolic legitimacy.
This Late Postclassic world was dynamic and rapidly changing, experiencing a surge in population, agricultural intensification, urban growth, expanded
commercial activity (with increases in both the volume and diversity of trade
goods), and greater interactions in symbolic and stylistic realms (see Chapter 8).
Well-argued correlations among some of these dimensions have been offered
(see Sanders et al. 1979; Nichols and Evans 2009), but can we also suggest forces
generating these changes?
William Sanders and his colleagues (1979: 236–281), basing their approach
on the cultural ecological model, see close correlations between the Postclassic
population growth and agricultural intensification. Michael Smith further suggests that relatively good living standards among Aztec peasants were achieved
“through the intensification of household agricultural and craft labor beyond
the needs of subsistence in order to participate actively in the market system,”
although he recognizes that this is “difficult to confirm with existing data”
(1996a: 385).
Overall, there is little consensus about the forces driving the Late Postclassic
population surge, the proliferation of small polities and urban centers, the
importance of markets and commerce, and the distribution of economic specializations (Nichols 2004: 275). For instance, some researchers see market
growth as the primary actor in the prominence of city-states (e.g., Blanton
et al. 1993); others give pride of place to politics in the Postclassic world of
urban–rural relationships (e.g., Brumfiel 1980, 1983, 1987). This latter position
suggests that imperial forces were at work in generating local-level changes
(e.g., tribute flows into the imperial capitals encouraged neighboring city-states
to shift from craft specializations to agriculture). Political economy approaches

29

30

Setting the Stage
contribute to an understanding of these dynamics, especially in considering
aspects of the economy as “variously contingent on changing social, political,
and ecological conditions” (Wells 2006: 268; see Hirth 1984, 1996).
Questions about many Late Postclassic changes revolve around the impact of
the Aztec Empire on conquered peoples as well as the responses of those people to their conquered status. For instance, in Morelos overall living standards
decreased following imperial conquest, and agricultural terracing increased
(suggesting a need to support a growing population and/or meet imposed
tribute demands) (Smith 1994; Smith and Heath-Smith 1994). Elsewhere, possible impacts might have involved shifts in productive activities (e.g., from craft
specializations to agriculture, as previously noted) and political influences on
economic exchange (e.g., posited control by Tenochtitlan of its northern Basin
of Mexico subjects; see Hodge 1998). On the other side of the coin, Chance
and Stark (2007) consider the options of conquered peoples and polities under
imperial rule (see Chapter 5). These options lead us to consider the matter of
agency in cultural and political change.
Aztec-period Mexico was a time of immense and rapid change; the Empire
itself spanned only about three generations of people. These people experienced noticeable changes in their own lifetimes and in turn affected the trajectory of change. Investigating the role of these lives is the realm of agency
theory, as “[m]odern archaeologists want to study how individuals experience
material conditions and how new beliefs and meanings are inscribed in individual lives, especially in times of social change” (Yoffee 2005: 113). Modern
ethnohistorians seek the same goal. While the lives of the elite are most visible (see Case 5.1), equally important are the social roles and decisions of any
person in the society (Yoffee 2005: 113–114; see Chapter 8). Agency theory
brings our imperial reconstructions to the individual level: What did it take
to live like an Aztec? How did one wend one’s way through the demands and
fortunes of everyday life? What led various people to make their various decisions? Questions such as these can lead to profound cultural understandings.
These themes of complexity, diversity, interaction, and dynamics appear
repeatedly throughout this book. Also permeating the book is a focus on connections. While individual chapters address particular realms of life, no selfrespecting Aztec would have divided up his or her life in this manner. Aztecs’
lives were a complex mosaic of everyday practical and ritual expectations
and demands geared toward living in the present, depending on the past, and
preparing for the future. In short, this book examines the nature, dynamics,
stresses, and anchors of Aztec culture and society from a holistic anthropological perspective.

C hap t e r 2
T H E A Z T E C S A S M E S OA M E R I C A N S

From this time on the Chichimec barbarians acquired a little culture and
lived like rational people and covered themselves with clothing.... They also
made huts in which to live.... They began to have relations with the other
people and to trade and bargain with them ... becoming related to them by
marriage, beginning to have lords, recognizing the authority of some men
over others.
Diego Durán 1994: 18; originally written 1581

The Aztecs were latecomers to Mesoamerica. As nomadic or seminomadic
Chichimecs they migrated into Mesoamerica from the northern deserts, carrying some cultural features shared by other, similar migrants, along with
other traits unique to themselves. Within a few generations after their arrival
in the Basin of Mexico, they had incorporated much of the well-established
Mesoamerican way of life into their own traditional cultural milieu.This chapter pursues the place of the Aztecs in Mesoamerica – just how typical, or how
unique, were they?
MESOAMERICA: A MATTER OF PERSPECTIVE

As a culture area, Mesoamerica traditionally encompasses approximately the
lower two-thirds of Mexico, all of Belize, Guatemala, and El Salvador, and
adjacent portions of Honduras, Nicaragua, and Costa Rica (Figure 2.1). In
1943 Paul Kirchhoff defined this cultural region by assembling a rather long
list of diverse and very specific culture traits, such as agriculture based on
maize, beans, and squash; chinampas (cultivated plots built up in shallow lakebeds); wooden swords studded with flint or obsidian; pyrite mirrors; stepped
pyramids; ballcourts; eagle and jaguar military orders; merchants who occasionally served as spies; hieroglyphic writing; ritual use of paper and rubber;
and two intertwined calendars yielding a fifty-two-year cycle (Kirchhoff 1943:
99–101). The idea was that although some of these traits were also found in
other culture areas, their combination was distinctive to the geographical area
31

32

Setting the Stage

Figure 2.1. Map of the boundaries of Mesoamerica. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

defined as “Mesoamerica,” and hence signified a certain amount of historical
and cultural unity among the peoples living in that region. These commonalities were considered to result from “a shared history of diffusion and migration
linking Mesoamerican societies” (Schortman and Urban 2001: 365).
We have come a long way since Kirchhoff offered this conception of
Mesoamerica, yet we still find value in the concept and recognize important
commonalities within the region. These tend to be phrased more generally
and revolve around such themes as agricultural intensification, specialization
and trade, urban planning, legitimization of power, elite culture, knowledge
systems, mythological and cosmological constructs, and stylistic regimes.
Recast, these commonalities are seen today in different, more dynamic terms.
In particular, specific and general cultural developments are now viewed in
terms of more complex processes and interactions. While individual researchers tend to prefer one approach over others, there is an increasing tendency to
interweave local ecological adaptations, regional and macroregional interactions, the fluctuations of regional unity and diversity over time, and the role of
ethnicity in efforts to strengthen our explanations of the dynamics and workings of Mesoamerican civilizations. These typically require interdisciplinary
undertakings. Especially useful have been macroregional and world systems
approaches that recognize regional variations and seek to understand multiple

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans
types of interaction among people of different societal levels and across different city-states and regions (e.g., Blanton and Feinman 1984; Feinman
and Nicholas 2000; Smith and Berdan 2003b; Parkinson and Galaty 2007;
Schortman and Urban 2001). For Aztec-period Mexico, a modified world systems perspective “is one of the few approaches capable of encompassing an
area as large as Mesoamerica while accommodating a wide range of variation
in the economic and political organization of the constituent societies” (Smith
and Berdan 2003a: 12). As Mesoamericans, the Aztecs were participants, very
significant participants, in this broader interacting world.
AZTEC PRECEDENTS

The focus of this book is on the Aztec Empire, the final act on the preHispanic Mesoamerican stage (see Table 2.1). However, the Aztecs (or, more
specifically, Mexica) cannot be understood in a temporal vacuum. Civilizations
stretched back to approximately 1200 BC in Mesoamerica, and in the Basin
of Mexico and immediate environs, the basic tenets of Mesoamerican civilization were well established at least by the first century AD. These included a
hierarchical social order; centralized power; urbanization; monumental public
architecture; intensified economic production yielding substantial surpluses;
specialization along economic, social, political, and religious lines; and a polytheistic religion.
As a secondary state,1 the Mexica were in the enviable position of being able
to learn from their predecessors. Already systems of sophisticated knowledge
had been established, techniques refined, and practical and spiritual problems
tackled. Drawing on earlier models, the Mexica had the basics at their disposal as they established their city-state: they knew how to grow crops, build
temples, lay out a city, select rulers, make war, fashion weapons and armor,
weave cloth, make pulque, and act haughty or humble as the occasion required.
They could build their cities and city-states rapidly and confidently, much of
the trial and error and experimentation having been undertaken by others
before them.
While secondary states in some vague sense owe organizational and thematic debts to all preceding ones in the broader region, in this case the debts
most emphatically and directly derived from Teotihuacan and Tula. The
Teotihuacanos created a huge and carefully planned early city with complex
internal structures and external relations; the Toltecs of Tula expanded on these
themes; and the Mexica further elaborated these patterns, reaping the benefits
of the models these predecessors provided. Both Teotihuacan and Tula were
considered “Tollans” by the later Mexica: such revered legendary-mythical
centers were considered forgers of civilization, creating law, government, fine
arts, and virtually all that was grand and valued by high-minded Aztecs. To
gain political legitimacy in their new setting, it was essential for the Aztecs to

33

34

Setting the Stage
Table 2.1. Chronology of Central Mexico and the Basin of Mexico
Dates (AD)

Central Mexico

Basin of Mexico

Prominent Polities

950–1150
1150–1350
1350–1521
(1325–1430)
(1430–1521)

Early Postclassic
Middle Postclassic
Late Postclassic

Early Postclassic
Early Aztec

Tula and the Toltecs
Arrival of Mexica

(Late Aztec A)
(Late Aztec B)

Prelude to Empire
Aztec Empire

establish, demonstrate, and reaffirm direct links to the revered and semimythical world of Tollan (see Boone 2000b).
The Aztecs themselves never experienced either Teotihuacan or Tula as a
living city. Both were in ruins by the time the Mexica entered the central
Mexican plateau, although Teotihuacan in particular still had a substantial population residing in the proximity of the ancient city. Instead, these migrants
encountered a profusion of city-states dotting an increasingly dense landscape.
These polities of varying size and importance dominated the central Mexican
landscape from at least the first century AD until the Spanish conquest. They
provided the foundation for cycles of political consolidation and fragmentation
throughout central Mexico (Marcus 1998). Teotihuacan’s dominance was followed by approximately two centuries of political fragmentation into numerous independent city-states. These relatively autonomous polities eventually
yielded to Tula’s prominence, again followed by fragmentation after Tula’s collapse in the late twelfth century.The Mexica of Tenochtitlan were one of these
small city-states before they eventually revived (and ended) this pre-Hispanic
cycle with the development of their Triple Alliance and expansionist empire
from 1428 to 1521.
In the words of Linda Manzanilla,“[I]t was Teotihuacan that inaugurated the
era of large capitals in and around the Basin of Mexico” (2004: 117).This enormous urban center flourished from ca. 150 to 650/750 AD (roughly the Classic
period) in the northeastern corner of the Basin of Mexico. It extended approximately 20 square kilometers, and its overall population may have reached a level
of 100,000–200,000 residents. In many ways, Teotihuacan was unique among
Mesoamerican cities: its grid layout defied the usual arrangements of major
buildings around plazas, its formalized urban planning extended beyond the
city center to encompass residential areas as well, it lacked the customary ballcourts, and it left no major monuments commemorating the deeds of exceptional rulers (Millon 1981; Pasztory 1997). Still, as an extensive urban center
with monumental public architecture (and drawing on its own Mesoamerican
predecessors), it had implemented solutions to problems of urban development
and statecraft: the feeding and general provisioning of an extraordinarily large
and dense population; the coordination of labor for massive public projects;

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans

35

Figure 2.2. Classic-period
Teotihuacan. (Photograph
by Frances Berdan.)

the use of specific material objects as political, status, and military symbols; the
inclusion (or perhaps integration) of multiple ethnic groups within the city;
the coordination of specialized occupations; and the idea of empire and the
ability of the state to enthrall distant regions.
Impressive even in ruins,Teotihuacan was held in special awe by the Mexica
newcomers (Figure 2.2). Through their legends, the Mexica revealed the
paramount importance of Teotihuacan in their new life: they considered it
to be the sacred setting for the creation of the current world (see Chapter 7)
and the place where laws, rulers, and government were created (Boone
2000b: 375). Their familiarity with Teotihuacan derived from their proximity to the ruined site, from ceremonial pilgrimages made to the ancient
city, and from actual artifacts uncovered there by unnamed Mexica (Boone
2000b: 387–388; López Luján et al. 2000: 219; Umberger 1987). Much has
been written about the virtual appropriation of “things Teotihuacano” by
the later Mexica. They carried away and reused actual Teotihuacan objects,
sometimes modifying these antiques with their own significant inscriptions.
Even more frequently, they copied and reproduced objects in this revered
style (Umberger 1996). Some of these objects were exhibited; others were
buried as offerings. No fewer than forty-one Teotihuacan or Teotihuacanstyle objects (including three masks, various sculptures, and a remarkable
vase reused as an Mexica noble’s burial urn) have been uncovered in offerings in Tenochtitlan’s ceremonial precinct (López Luján et al. 2000; López
Luján 2005:104).
On two temples beside the Templo Mayor (the “red temples”), the
Tenochtitlan Mexica brazenly copied Teotihuacan architectural (talud-tablero)
and artistic styles, making an aggressive and visible statement of their perceived
and claimed associations with this early venerable city. Equally obvious were
similarities in urban layout: both cities were laid out on a grid anchored by
major north–south and east–west avenues, the avenues met at a point of major

36

Setting the Stage
ceremonial significance, and the primary temple faced west. The residential
areas surrounding both cities’ epicenters were also formally arranged, retaining a
rather neat geometric grid plan (Umberger 1987: 84; 1996: 89–90; Smith 2008).
Both cities were atypical in Mesoamerican urban planning designs, which usually consisted of urban epicenters with ceremonial structures laid out formally
around a central plaza, with the remainder of the city more casually arranged.
Tula (ca. 950–1175 AD; Early Postclassic period), with an estimated population of around 50,000 inhabitants settled in a 13-square-kilometer area, was
considerably smaller than earlier Teotihuacan (Diehl 2004: 124). Nonetheless,
its influence on the later Mexica was easily as significant, in both practical and
symbolic arenas. As with Teotihuacan, the Mexica associated Tula with origins,
in this case the origins of fine arts and legitimate rulership.2 Mexica fine artisans were called tolteca, and the Mexica made concerted efforts to marry into
legitimate Toltec lineages in their rise to power. Mexica links to Tula (some 80
kilometers north of Tenochtitlan) are ambiguous – Mexica legends depict Tula
in fantastic and effusive terms, while the Early Postclassic site itself is humble
by comparison. Aztec-period (Late Postclassic) remains, including ceramics,
buried offerings, burials, and sculptures, have been found at Tula, and the area
was occupied throughout Aztec times (Umberger 1987: 71–72; Smith 2008:
23–24).Yet it was the image of Tula in Mexica ideology that was most important – their reverence for that earlier civilization tangibly influenced their priorities, motivations, and behavior.
In spatial terms, Tenochtitlan’s central precinct layout is only roughly coincident with that of Tula (with its west-facing main temple, low-lying platform,
skull rack, and ballcourt; Smith 2008).3 However, Tula-style relief-sculpture
warriors march along banquettes in the Eagle Warriors’ chamber adjacent to
Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor, ceramic vessels were fashioned in Toltec style,
and sculptured chacmools hark back to those at Tula. Umberger (1987) has
studied these and other objects with an art historian’s eye and concluded that
most were probably copies of older Toltec forms, as they exhibit specific stylistic variations characteristic of imperial Mexica art. While only few Toltec
antiques themselves were retained (or have yet been recovered), it is impressive
that the Mexica made the effort to replicate the Toltec style, venerating it in
their own creative endeavors.
The ceremonial use and display of legendary and foreign elements to bolster political legitimacy was not invented by the Mexica. However, they readily embraced the notion and were especially enthusiastic participants in this
political strategy. Demonstrable connections with the revered past provided
the Mexica with a solid symbolic basis for their political ambitions.4 Drawing
on the glory and prestige of ancient Teotihuacan and Tula, the Mexica made
an explicit statement linking themselves to the chain of venerated central
Mexican civilizations. They did not, however, abandon their Chichimec heritage along the way.

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans

37

Figure 2.3. The
Teochichimeca. (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 10, illus.
184. Courtesy University of
Utah Press. Reproduced
with permission.)

THE MERGING OF CHICHIMEC AND TOLTEC: THE AZTECS
IN MESOAMERICA

Aztec culture was a hybrid culture, meshing nomadic Chichimec and settled Toltec attributes. The Mexica and several other groups undertook long
migrations from the north into central Mexico, beginning their arrivals at
least by the twelfth century AD. Collectively known as Chichimeca, they periodically joined and dispersed on their eventful journeys; the Mexica were
the last to arrive in the Basin of Mexico. There they encountered numerous well-established sedentary peoples, some of them claiming Toltec affinities.
Interacting with these groups, the Mexica and other migrants readily absorbed
Mesoamerican traditions into their cultural repertoires.
As Chichimeca, these northern peoples brought a number of cultural attributes to the table. There was a fair amount of cultural diversity among them.
There were Teochichimeca, or “true Chichimecs” (Figure 2.3), who were
nomadic hunters and gatherers, wore animal skins, used peyote, depended
heavily on the bow and arrow, but nonetheless produced fine goods of feathers and stone (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 171–175). Whether the Mexica
themselves were Teochichimeca at some point in their journey is a matter of
conjecture. By the time the historical accounts catch up with them, they more
closely resembled another type of Chichimeca, the Tamime, whose lifestyle
was transitional between nomadic and settled. Sahagún (1950–1982: book 10,
171) suggests that such groups acquired the more “civilized” way of life by
first honing language skills to learn from the settled peoples, thereby acquiring
poor and tattered capes and cultivating small fields of maize.5 They apparently
were successful at this transition, since they are also described as constructing
great buildings (such as temples) and were well aware of prestigious luxuries
such as rich capes, cacao, and precious greenstones (Durán 1994: 12, 19, 22).
They had priests (suggesting a social hierarchy), coped with internal factions,

38

Setting the Stage
Case 2.1 The Aztec Migrations: Prelude to Tenochtitlan
Several historical sources, pictorial and textual, record the early history of the
Mexica and other Chichimeca as they traveled from their arid northern homelands to their new settlements in and around the Basin of Mexico.These travels
required some two centuries, from the early twelfth century until 1325 AD (for
the Mexica). This adventurous history focused on a series of dramatic events
that set the stage for subsequent urban and imperial developments.
The earliest experiences, as recorded, display a mythic-historic quality, a style
consistent with the Aztec worldview in which the line between the natural and
supernatural worlds was thin and permeable. The more distant in time, the more
mythical, so locations and itineraries from their beginnings at Aztlan to the curved
hill of Culhuacan and the Seven Caves of Chicomoztoc remain vague. Also cast in
mythical terms were internal conflicts along the way: in one quarrel the goddess
Malinalxochitl split from her brother Huitzilopochtli, the Mexica patron god. On
the ground, this resulted in the former faction settling at Malinalco, which the
Mexica would later conquer.An even more dramatic conflict along the route took
place at Coatepetl (Serpent Mountain). It pit Huitzilopochtli (as the sun) against
his sister Coyolxauhqui (the moon) and her four hundred brothers (numerous
stars), with Huitzilopochtli emerging victorious (as the sun conquers the forces of
night each dawn). Events seem more “historical” as the Mexica passed through the
ancient seat of power of Tula and entered the Basin of Mexico.
The Mexica arrival in the Basin had been preceded by the migrations of several other northern groups. Most notable were the Tepaneca, who had settled
to the west of Lake Texcoco, and the Acolhua, who had settled to the east. The
west was already densely occupied with long-resident peoples, while the east
was more sparsely inhabited.The Mexica stopped briefly at the Otomí center of
Xaltocan, then journeyed along the western shore of the lake, passing through
several well-established Tepanec city-states. They stopped at Chapultepec Hill,
source of a desirable spring. There they were besieged by a coalition of established city-states. In dire straits, with their ruler captured by the Colhuacan king,
the remaining Mexica fell into servitude to the Colhua ruler, Coxcoxtli. They
then helped that ruler in his war against neighboring Xochimilco and appealed
to him to provide them lands on which to settle. Coxcoxtli acquiesced but settled the Mexica at a place called Tizaapan, a locale inhabited only by poisonous
snakes and other nasty vermin. Demonstrating extraordinary survival skills, the
Mexica thrived there, earning the respect (or fear) of their Colhuacan overlords.
The Mexica also revealed cunning diplomatic skills, arranging marriages with
several Colhuacan persons, including a marriage between the ruler’s favorite
daughter and the Mexica god Huitzilopochtli. This last ended in chaos, as the
Colhuacan ruler was invited to the marriage ceremony, only to find his daughter sacrificed and her skin worn by a Mexica priest. Enraged, Colhuacan warriors chased the Mexica into the heart of Lake Texcoco.They finally stopped on
a swampy island, where at last they saw an eagle perched atop a prickly pear cactus, the sacred symbol of their destiny. This was in the year Two House (1325),
and it was there that they founded Tenochtitlan, their new seat of power.

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans
These events reveal much about life in the Basin of Mexico during the Early
Aztec period (1150–1350), prior to Aztec imperial domination. First, there
were full-blown cities and city-states in the Basin at this time, and the landscape was already becoming rather crowded. Second, the relations among these
city-states were highly volatile.Third, their strategies for survival included wars,
alliances, elite intermarriage, and the use of mercenaries. And fourth, some citystates were more prestigious than others, being derivative seats of the revered
ancestral Toltec heritage.
Furthermore, events described in the Mexica’s early history, whether mythical
or historical, carried relevance in their later history.Their Huey Teocalli (Templo
Mayor, Great Temple) in Tenochtitlan was also called Coatepec, commemorating the location of their patron god’s victory over his sister Coyolxauhqui.
An enormous carved monument of this defeated goddess (discovered in
1978) sat at the base of the Templo Mayor. On a more general level, the Mexica’s early history demonstrates how they took advantage of local conflicts,
bought into existing political strategies, and were willing to serve as subservient
mercenaries while always having their eye on the ultimate prize of domination
of their known world. These stories also highlight the Mexica view of themselves as tenacious, clever, and driven by a sacred destiny.

played the ritual ballgame, and were polytheistic. In other words, before they
arrived in the Basin of Mexico, the Mexica and their fellow travelers had
already acquired the basics of Mesoamerican “civilized” life. Their adjustment
to permanent settled life in the Mesoamerican style would have been neither
shocking nor traumatic (although it was eventful; see Case 2.1).
The Chichimec world technically lay outside the more fertile Mesoamerican
realm. It was, however, not isolated from that realm. Relations between centers
in central Mexico and Paquimé (Casas Grandes) in the northern Chihuahua
desert were active in Toltec times and later, as were relations with groups along
the Pacific coast (see Foster and Gorenstein 2000; Fields and Zamudio-Taylor
2001). Turquoise traveled south from the U.S. Southwest, while scarlet macaws
and their precious feathers, copper bells, shells, and even chocolate traveled
north, presumably following mutually advantageous trade networks (Lekson
and Peregrine 2004; Weigand and García de Weigand 2001; Pohl 2001; Crown
and Hurst 2009).6 Chichimec familiarity with such materials (and whatever
associated ideas traveled with them) should come as no surprise.7
Settling in the Basin of Mexico, the Mexica recognized the value of establishing connections with the glorified, generalized Toltec world.The overt strategies
they employed to integrate themselves into that world, and ultimately dominate
it, attest to this (see Case 2.2). On a practical level they orchestrated alliances and
elite marriages, built a city following ancient central Mexican formats, trained
their artists to copy Teotihuacan and Tula styles and objects (Figure 2.4), and built

39

40

Setting the Stage

a

b

Figure 2.4. Sculptural reliefs from (a) Tula and (b) Tenochtitlan. (Drawings by Emily Umberger.
Reproduced with permission.)

expansive and expensive palaces and public buildings.They waged wars and made
conquests. They gained wealth through tribute and commerce, thereby obtaining prestigious objects for display.They clearly recognized the power of symbols
to link them to a “civilized” past. But while they acquired titles and deities reminiscent of the Toltec past, they also retained and honored their Chichimec titles
(especially in warrior contexts) and gave pride of place to their own patron god,
Huitzilopochtli.
Case 2.2 Mexica Development Strategies: Prelude to Empire
The history leading to Aztec imperial dominance was grounded in a series
of pivotal events and assertive political-economic strategies. The dated events
include the following:
1325
1337

Founding of Tenochtitlan
Founding of Tlatelolco on the northern part of the island by a dissident group of Mexica
1372
Establishment of Acamapichtli as tlatoani of Tenochtitlan
1427
Death of Tezozomoc, powerful ruler of Azcapotzalco
1428– Battle for regional domination between an Azcapotzalco contender
1430 (Maxtla) and combined forces from Tenochtitlan and Texcoco
1430
Ascendancy of Nezahualcoyotl to the throne of Texcoco
1430
Establishment of the Triple Alliance of Tenochtitlan,Texcoco, and Tlacopan
In 1325, when they established their new homeland at Tenochtitlan, the Mexica
were in a weak position within the shifting geopolitics of the Basin of Mexico.

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans
Yet they were far from helpless, and according to their own histories, they never
lost sight of their destiny to eventually rule the world around them.Their shaky
migratory history within the Basin had already taught them the basic strategies
of survival, and they built on these strategies as they spent the next century
striving for political dominance.
The first strategy was directed toward the Mexica’s need to provision their
island settlement in a manner appropriate to their (and their patron god’s) aspirations. The island was poor in building materials but rich in aquatic life and
in potential agricultural development. They immediately set about trading lake
resources (such as fish, frogs, larvae, and migratory birds) for stone and wood for
their godly temple, all on a rather humble scale.Their setting was advantageous
for canoe transport and communication, and they established a popular market. They also industriously began building chinampas, expanding their island
settlement well into the shallow lakebed itself and providing necessary food
resources for the growing city.
A second strategy involved subservience and alliance. Settling at Tenochtitlan
(and intending to stay there), they found themselves at the intersection of the
three most powerful city-states in the Basin of Mexico: Azcapotzalco to the
west, Texcoco to the east, and Colhuacan to the south. Apparently, they physically occupied land belonging to Azcapotzalco. They acknowledged the Azcapotzalco overlordship, paying tributes in aquatic resources and military service.
As warriors, they energetically aided that city-state in its aggressive regional
wars of conquest. The Mexica reaped the benefits of this mercenary activity,
as their nobles were granted lands in some of the conquered areas. These lands
provided an important economic base for an expanding elite, and eventually
the Mexica’s status changed from that of vassals to that of allies.
A third strategy involved the establishment of political legitimacy through
elite marriages. The Mexica already enjoyed a history of marrying into the
Colhuacan nobility, and pursued marriages into noble families of Azcapotzalco and Texcoco.The royal house of Colhuacan carried the prestigious Toltec
ancestry, and a child (Acamapichtli) born of a Mexica leader and a Colhuacan princess was installed as Tenochtitlan tlatoani in 1372; this event conferred
Toltec genealogical claims on the Mexica. Their subsequent rulers henceforth
descended from this Mexica–Toltec lineage. From that time it was customary
and expected for Mexica rulers and other nobles to intermarry with highranking lineages throughout the Basin of Mexico and beyond.
A fourth strategy concerned urban development. The Mexica established
their ceremonial precinct at the core of the infant city; they divided the surrounding area into quarters, and the quarters into smaller residential neighborhoods (calpulli, tlaxilacalli). Their productive base was expanded through
chinampas. The Mexica encouraged others to settle in Tenochtitlan, and since
the city grew rapidly, they were apparently successful in this.The city exhibited
increasing wealth: nobles began to openly enjoy fancy and expensive lifestyles,
and religious ceremonies became more and more flamboyant. A vibrant, energetic, wealthy, and growing city was essential as a symbol of power in the
Mexica’s pursuit of imperial dominance.

41

42

Setting the Stage
The Mexica and other newly arrived Chichimeca did not simply adopt
elements of the Mesoamerican world wholesale. More commonly, they recast
and reinterpreted these objects and ideas to mesh with those in their own
cultural milieu. For instance, according to Umberger (1987: 98), “the Mexica
usually changed the identity of figures in their imitations of ancient forms....
Sometimes they used the same form for different deities ... and sometimes different forms for the same deity.” As a case in point,Tenochtitlan’s association of
its own chacmools with the god Tlaloc “is probably a Mexica invention, not a
survival from the deep past” (Umberger 1987: 77).
By the time the Mexica and their allies were forging their empire, they
had effectively blended general Toltec imperatives with their Chichimec heritage. The process involved a relatively short time span, surely expedited by
the Chichimecs’ earlier exposure to Mesoamerican cultural features. On their
journeys southward, they had already built temples, but now in central Mexico
they built enormous ones. Their Chichimec temples were dedicated to their
patron god, but now their supernatural pantheon expanded and required a
multitude of temples and priestly attendants. As Chichimeca they were already
hierarchical, but now they became more and more caste-like. As Chichimeca
they had leaders, but now their leaders were personally powerful rulers supported by a massive bureaucracy; their statecraft strategies and external relations
were complex and sophisticated. As Chichimeca they had a few specialists, but
now they developed well-defined, even hereditary specialist groups. And as
Chichimeca they already wore cloth capes, but now fancy ones replaced the
tattered rags of earlier times and were accompanied by expensive and exquisite ornaments. In other words, by the time the Aztec Empire had reached its
pinnacle as a dominant force in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries,
these latecomers had enthusiastically acquired a Mesoamerican way of life,
coming to define that way of life itself.
CHALLENGES, INNOVATIONS, AND MEXICA RESPONSES

While the Aztecs were recipients of much from their dual heritage, they also
became innovators and a dominant force in their Mesoamerican setting. They
faced particular challenges requiring inventive and proactive institutional and
behavioral responses. These challenges and responses largely involved matters
of scale, intensity, and complexity.
The Late Postclassic period in central Mexico (1350–1521 AD) experienced
a major population surge, especially in the Basin of Mexico (Sanders et al. 1979:
183–184; Sanders 1981: 193). This demographic explosion resulted in a population of some 1 million people in the Basin in the early sixteenth century. At
the most basic level, how was this unprecedented number of people fed? This
challenge was met by intensified food production systems such as terracing,
irrigation, and chinampas as marginal lands were made productive and lakebeds

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans
were transformed into cultivated plots. While these strategies increased production substantially, the reliance of a large population on high-intensity and
sometimes marginal agricultural systems also magnified the impact of famines
and the potential for malnutrition.
A second major challenge was political (see Brumfiel 1983). The Basin of
Mexico was composed of a profusion of city-states that weathered internal
dynastic struggles and competed with one another for resources, prestige, and
prominence. This unstable situation resulted in the occasional yet short-lived
preeminence of one city-state in the region, only to be replaced by that of
another. The formation of the Triple Alliance in 1428–1430 set in motion the
overwhelmingly dominant Aztec Empire. With their imperial strategies, the
Mexica and their allies forged a relatively stable political environment in much
of central Mexico. In that setting, commerce and marketplaces thrived: an
increased variety and volume of local and imported goods became available
to people across diverse regions and up and down the social hierarchy. As
city-states were conquered by this aggressive and expanding empire, tributes
flowed into the largest city ever seen in Mesoamerica, channeling more and
more resources from outlying regions into the Basin of Mexico.These tributes
helped support the city’s residents, supplied its artisans, funded its bureaucracy
and wars, and provided the visible luxuries that symbolized the power and
elevated status of rulers and other elites. These symbols were used to enhance
Aztec power over wide regions, as they were shared and understood widely
throughout Mesoamerica in Late Postclassic times.
How, then, did the Aztec world differ from its predecessors? In general,
innovations in the Late Postclassic Aztec world largely involved intensifying
existing Mesoamerican cultural and institutional features. Earlier civilizations
had developed sophisticated agricultural techniques; the Aztecs expanded on
known technologies, creating, for example, a vast network of chinampas around
lacustrine shorelines. The Mexica capital city of Tenochtitlan was the largest
in Mesoamerican prehistory, and its size and full-scale urban planning were
rivaled only by that of earlier Teotihuacan. Its primary temples were not the
largest ever built in Mesoamerica,8 but they presented a novel plan of crowding numerous temples and other structures within a well-defined ceremonial
compound (see Smith 2008: 68, 146).9 Radiating out from this and neighboring
cities, Aztec military forces forged the most extensive empire in Mesoamerican
prehistory, enthralling distant regions by means of tribute obligations, elite
marriages, threats of reprisals, promises of protection, client relations, and
the stimulation of craft production and commerce (see Chapters 4 and 5).
Controlling that empire (although sometimes tenuously; see Chapter 5), Aztec
imperial rulers and their elite cadres acquired unsurpassed political power. Like
their predecessors and royal contemporaries, they brashly exhibited their power
and elevated status. However, Aztec rulers and other elites could do so with
unprecedented extravagance, so that Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (r. 1502–1520)

43

44

Setting the Stage
was said to have been served, at a minimum, more than thirty dishes at a single
meal (Díaz del Castillo 1963: 225).10
In short, the Aztecs augmented an expanding Mesoamerican world already
in motion, through conquest, commerce, and diplomacy. They spearheaded
imperial policies and state-making strategies that interwove, to various degrees,
broad regions and diverse peoples into a dynamic, interacting Mesoamerican
world system.
THE ROLE OF ETHNICITY

While the concept of Mesoamerica is based on commonalities, it is important
to stress the considerable cultural and linguistic diversity within that culture
area. Especially significant is the fact that central Mexican peoples, organized
into numerous city-states in Aztec times, considered themselves separate and distinct from others around them. To what extent were these distinctions based
on ethnicity? How did these people define ethnicity, and how meaningful
were ethnic identities in directing or constraining their lives?
On the surface, distinctions along ethnic lines were visibly expressed in language, clothing, bodily adornments, hair styles, food preferences, and attributed
“character” (Figure 2.5) (Berdan 2008: 116–127). Stereotypes of ethnic groups
clearly existed, placing some judgmental and moral distance between these
identifiable groups (as, for instance, when badly behaving Mexica children
were chastised by being described as “Otomí blockheads”). Yet while these
distinctions were recognized and verbalized, and even exaggerated during certain ceremonies, they were infrequently mobilized as a primary motivator in
people’s lives and therefore had few serious consequences.
Nonetheless, at a somewhat deeper level, ethnicity in the Aztec world differentiated groups of people on the basis of shared places of origin or residence
and common histories. It was a cultural concept and did not have its basis in
biological distinctions. Beyond common residence and common history, ethnic
criteria included a shared destiny, common enemies, and common interest.
Common residence was preeminent: ethnic groups tended to cluster in
city-states (altepetl) and especially in their component districts (calpolli) (see
Chapter 5). However, it was common for altepetl to be multiethnic and for
residence in any city or community to be somewhat fluid in the face of considerable population movements and displacements in Aztec times. In other
words, there was typically no one-to-one relationship between city-state and
ethnic group, although usually a given city-state was dominated politically by
one ethnic group. Shared histories were associated with common residence:
“These historical and mythical links typically took the form of an origin
story, adventurous peregrination, and founding legend, and often focused on
a legendary leader and/or legitimized dynastic rulership” (Berdan 2008: 109).
Such histories often justified the occupation or appropriation of a certain

The Aztecs as Mesoamericans

45

Figure 2.5. Totonaca from the eastern Aztec Empire,
dressed in the colorful clothing for which they were known.
(From Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, illus. 195. Courtesy
University of Utah Press. Reproduced with permission.)

territory, so common residence and shared history became intertwined over
time. Extending these ideas into the future, some ethnic groups emphasized
the sharing of a common destiny; the Mexica’s drive to dominate their known
world is a premier example of this.
Ethnic groups also rallied around common enemies. To the extent that ethnic identities coincided with city-states, they provided common ground for the
region’s ever-present wars. While one’s ethnicity may have provided an added
dimension to loyalties in these situations, one’s city-state membership still predominated. Wars seem not to have been instigated against groups because of
their differing ethnicity. On the contrary, the bitterest wars were waged by the
Triple Alliance against polities in the nearby Valley of Puebla.11 These were not
exotic groups; they were familiar Nahuatl speakers.
Common interest provided a certain amount of adhesion within ethnic
groups. Sentiments of attachment to one’s ethnicity were evident and reinforced in recurring public ceremonies; at the very least, an ethnic group’s commitment to its patron deity usually overrode obligations to other deities in
the pantheon. Rituals surrounding such patron deities provided ethnic groups
with a sense of exclusivity (see Chapter 7).
The earlier discussion of the dual nature of Mexica culture, blending
Chichimec and Toltec features, exemplifies the situational, protean, and subjective nature of ethnicity: “This malleability means that members can base their
ethnicity on descent from common ancestors at one period and at another
time shift to ethnicity based on location with only vague reference to common descent” (Sandstrom and Berdan 2008: 205). This underscores the need
for understanding the changing contexts in which ethnicity appeared.
In the Aztec world, an individual’s role in society was defined along multiple dimensions, notably residence, social class, occupation, and ethnic identity.
Among these, ethnicity appears to have been the least significant, and ethnic
groups seem to have been integrated into and even subsumed within the more
basic residential units and social institutions. But ethnicity was not irrelevant,
as “ethnic opinions and stereotypes were certainly easily established and could
have encouraged, discouraged, or textured interaction” within and between
territorial and social groups (Berdan 2008: 127).

46

Setting the Stage
The Aztec world was a mosaic of cultures, languages, and self-interested polities forged through intricate and complex histories. Any single self-identified
group, at any single point in time, might give priority to city-state membership, cultural affinities, linguistic commonalities, or even some special economic distinction in securing its place in this dynamic world. These priorities
were adjusted and readjusted to meet sometimes dramatically changing circumstances in each group’s broader social, political, and economic universe.
These affinities were not neat and clean. That is, they overlapped and crosscut one another, and there were few situations where all of these dimensions neatly coincided. City-states were often multiethnic and multilinguistic.
Chichimecs lived side by side with Toltec descendants. Groups of craft specialists moved from their native communities to larger cities. Refugees relocated.
“Foreign” military posts were installed in equally “foreign” locales. The complexity of this situation is, at first blush, perhaps bewildering. But it does not
defy understanding. Certainly the Aztecs themselves managed quite well to
wend their individual ways through this apparent maze. The remaining chapters in this book consider how they did this, by examining their economic,
political, social, religious, and cultural milieu.

part 2
AZTEC SOCIETY AND CULTURE

C hap t e r 3
LIVING ON THE LAND

The country of New Spain is similar to Spain in that it has almost the
same kind of mountains, valleys and fields, except that its mountains are
more formidable and rugged. . . . Also there are ranges known to extend
more than two hundred leagues . . . there are large rivers and very good
fresh-water springs; extensive forests, over mountain and plain, of very
tall pines, cedars, oaks, cypresses, encinos and many varieties of mountain
timber.
Anonymous Conqueror 1993: 165; originally appeared second half of
sixteenth century, based on early sixteenth-century observations
ENVIRONMENTAL FEATURES OF THE AZTEC WORLD

The Aztec imperial domain lay entirely within the tropics. Yet it was an
immensely diverse region, its physical variations dependent largely on differences in elevation and rainfall (Figure 3.1). It was a land of majestic snowcapped volcanic mountains, broad fertile plateaus, semiarid valleys, lake-filled
basins, verdant mountains slashed by deep barrancas, dense rain forests, mangrove swamps, and charming lagoons. It was a land ranging in elevation from
sea level to 5,610 meters above sea level,1 and it is usefully divided by modern
geographers into three distinct altitudinal levels: tierra caliente, tierra templada,
and tierra fría (see Case 3.1).
Landscapes transcending all of these zones were relevant to the Aztecs in
varying degrees: their imperial core was established in the Basin of Mexico,
and their closest relations and bitterest sustained enemies occupied the surrounding central Mexican plateaus. Their imperial hegemony extended more
distantly from coast to coast and as far south as the present-day Guatemalan
border, and they developed trade and diplomatic relations beyond their actual
area of political control, especially into the southern coastal and rain forest
regions of the Maya.

49

50

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 3.1. Mesoamerican topography. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

The Basin of Mexico
The Basin of Mexico was the nerve center of the Aztec Empire. The largest of the central Mexican high-altitude plateaus, this basin is approximately
7,000 square kilometers in extent. It is rimmed by majestic mountain peaks
reaching as high as 5,465 meters,2 and it descends at its lowest point to 2,240
meters. It is well within tierra fría. It experiences moderate seasonal rainfall
(May–September) that varies considerably from one year to the next. Rainfall
is highest in the southwest and lowest in the northeast, and increases along the
piedmont and mountain slopes.
In Aztec times this internal-drainage basin had no hydraulic outlet and was
dominated by a large system of five interlocking lakes predominantly fed by
springs in the south, by rainfall runoff in the east, and by rivers in the north
(Figure 3.2). The fresh waters of the two southernmost lakes, Lake Chalco and
Lake Xochimilco, were rich in lacustrine resources and provided a favorable
zone for extensive chinampa cultivation. The easternmost and largest lake was
Lake Texcoco; it was saline, and while unsuitable for chinampa cultivation, it
provided a variety of natural resources and was a productive setting for saltmaking enterprises. The two northern lakes, Lake Xaltocan and Lake Zumpango,
were fed primarily by rivers and springs, and while brackish (Parsons 2008a:

51

Living on the Land

Figure C3.1. A
central Mexican
landscape.
(Photograph by
Frances Berdan.)

Case 3.1 Geographical Zones in the Aztec World
Geographers typically divide Mesoamerica into three distinct zones based on
elevation. These zones exhibit characteristic fauna, flora, and patterns of human
use. All of them were found within the bounds of the Aztec Empire.
Tierra caliente (hot land) lies from sea level to an elevation of 1,000 meters.The
hot, humid lowlands of this zone usually experience heavy rainfall, resulting in
dense tropical forest or savannah grassland vegetation regimes. This is the home
of jaguars, monkeys, and brilliant tropical birds, as well as myriad forms of coastal
marine life. Aztec-period people living in tierra caliente and beyond were especially interested in these and other luxury resources, such as cacao, cotton, and
fine greenstones. They also often enjoyed more than one harvest of staple crops
annually. These lands included the coasts of the Aztec domain, as well as some
areas to the south of the Empire.
Tierra templada (temperate land) ranges from 1,000 to 2,000 meters in elevation. The lands in this zone range from rugged mountainous terrain to river
valleys shadowed by volcanic mountains. Rainfall is variable and seasonal, concentrated in the May–October rainy season. Native vegetation is also variable,
ranging from dry scrub woodlands to grasslands and mountain forests. In Aztec
times, the drier temperate lands required irrigation or other hydraulic intervention to ensure reasonably reliable agriculture. Tierra templada lands under Aztec
control lay mainly in the southern part of the Empire and in the mountainous
regions descending toward both coasts.
Tierra fría (cold land) rises above 2,000 meters, where the seasonal rainfall
tends to be even less predictable than in tierra templada. The extensive highland
plateaus of central Mexico, including the mountain-shadowed valleys or basins of
Mexico, Tula, Toluca, Puebla, and Tlaxcala, all fall within this zone (Figure C3.1).
Native vegetation responds to altitude and rainfall, and ranges from grasslands
to scrub woodlands to pine-oak forests. Swamplands are (were) also common
in basins or valleys with lakes. During Aztec times deer and rabbits inhabited
these highlands, and lakes harbored vast amounts of lacustrine resources and

52

Aztec Society and Culture
attracted large numbers of migratory birds. Other valued resources included
timber, obsidian, salt, and reeds. In Aztec times, agriculture was a prominent
human enterprise, although the growing season was shorter than in the other
two zones, and frost was always a potential danger. Under these conditions, the
ubiquitous nopal cactus and maguey were mainstays. These highland regions
were the Aztec imperial heartland, as well as home to the Aztecs’ more persistent enemies.

24), they allowed the local inhabitants to build some chinampas. Together, these
lakes dominated the basin, covering an estimated area of 800–1,000 square
kilometers (Rojas Rabiela 2004: 23). Beyond the lakes, expansive flatlands
extended several kilometers to a sloping piedmont region, culminating in rugged mountains.
These many microenvironments, from swampy lakes to high-altitude mountainsides, provided varied natural resources and offered different potentials for
human use. Natural resources were highly localized. The lakes and swampy
marshlands yielded abundant plants and animals for human use, including
“reeds, tuberous plants, algae, insects and insect eggs, frogs, salamanders, turtles, several species of fish and their eggs, several species of small crustaceans,
and vast numbers of waterfowl and their eggs” (Parsons 2008a: 39). Saltmaking
was concentrated along the saline shores of Lake Texcoco. Important obsidian
quarries were located in the northeast (at Otompan), lime in the northwest,
and localized deposits of clay for pottery making throughout. Forested areas
(consisting especially of oaks and pines), including those above the frost zone,
supplied woods for construction, fuel, and the manufacture of a multitude of
artifacts. White-tailed deer, rabbits, and other small animals were common in
these regions. These diverse resource areas tended to lead to economic specializations, especially in the hunting of animals and waterfowl;3 fishing; obsidian
mining; saltmaking; pottery manufacture; and wood, lime, and reed processing.
These specialized activities aside, agriculture was the fundamental economic activity in the Basin of Mexico. Agriculture took place in three general
contexts: chinampas were cultivated in shallow lakebeds, irrigation agriculture
was practiced in well-watered flatlands with deep soils, and rainfall agriculture was carried on along slopes with thinner soils and no permanent water
supply (Parsons 2008a: 51).4 Seed crops (especially maize, beans, amaranth,
and squashes) were grown in all three contexts; maguey, with its ability to
withstand cold and drought, was especially important in the drier and higher
areas.
With the Basin of Mexico at such a high elevation, frost was a serious
threat and the growing season was normally restricted to about six months.5
Especially critical was the timing of the rains: a delayed rainy season combined
with an early frost spelled disaster. Other threats included violent, cold storms,

Living on the Land

Figure 3.2. Map of the Basin of Mexico in 1519. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

flooding, drought, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and grasshopper and rat
plagues (see Case 3.2). So while the Basin was economically attractive and productive, it was not without its periodic risks.

The Central Mexico Plateaus
The highland valleys of central Mexico, including the Basin of Mexico,
have been variously called the central highlands, the Mesa Central, and the

53

54

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 3.2 Famines, Frosts, and Floods: Aztec-Period Disasters in the Basin of
Mexico
Agricultural life in the tierra fría was risky. Rainfall was erratic in timing and
quantity, grasshoppers and other pests devoured crops, killing frosts appeared
unpredictably, and the earth shook under earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.
The large Aztec population of the Basin of Mexico placed serious strains on
the available food supply. As long as water levels were controlled, the earth
stayed quiet, pests were impeded, frosts were conveniently late, and the anticipated tribute rolled in, the population could be fed. But nature was not always
so cooperative, nor was human ingenuity always successful. Even in the face of
intensified agricultural systems, extraordinary hydraulic engineering, and political sophistication, nature struck devastating blows to the Aztec core on several
occasions between 1325 and 1521:
1332–1335*
1403
1410
1446
1447–1448
1449
1450
1450–1454†
1451
1453
1460
1462
1468
1475
1480
1490
1491
1495 or 1496
1500
1502
1503
1505
1506
1507
1507
1511–1512
1512
1513
1514
1514–1539‡

Drought
Grasshopper plague
Rain of fire (volcanic eruption?), hunger
Grasshopper plague and famine
Violent storm or blizzard
Flood
Heavy snows
Devastating famine
Frost
Storm (perhaps frost, hail, and/or snow), destroying crops
Earthquake
Earthquake
Earthquake
Earthquake
Earthquake
Great hailstorm; fish died and the rivers left their channels
Grasshopper plague
Earthquake
Great flood (royal mismanagement)
Drought and famine
Heavy snowfall (in Tlachquiauhco, south of the Basin of Mexico)
Famine
Plague of rats, devouring crop seeds
Earthquake
Flooding of Atoyac River (southeast of Basin of Mexico)
Heavy snowstorms
Three earthquakes
Earthquake
Famine
Drought

* Based on tree-ring data (see Stahle et al. 2011).
† This well-known famine is variously recorded as beginning in 1450 or 1454, although
sources uniformly agree that it lasted four years.
‡ Based on tree-ring data (see Stahle et al. 2011).

Living on the Land
The documentary record becomes richer in the later years. These events are
variously recorded in the Codex Telleriano-Remensis (Quiñones Keber 1995),
Codex en Cruz (Dibble 1981), Códice Aubin (1980), Códice de Huichapan (Ecker
2001), Codex Chimalpopoca (Bierhorst 1992), Alva Ixtlilxochitl (1965), Durán
(1994), Torquemada (1969), Chimalpahin (Anderson and Schroeder 1997), and
Don Gabriel de Ayala (Anderson and Schroeder 1997). Tree-ring data (Stahle
et al. 2011;Therrell et al. 2004) are somewhat coincident with the ethnohistoric
record.

altiplano. This region lay predominantly in tierra fría and consists of “a series
of chambers, each set off from its neighbors by mountainous partitions” (Wolf
1959: 3) (Figure 3.3). To the east and west of the Basin of Mexico lay the valleys of Puebla (elevation 2,100 meters) and Toluca (elevation 2,600 meters).
These two valleys approximated the Basin of Mexico in elevation, topography, and climate but lacked the Basin’s dominant lakes. They contained broad
alluvial flatlands, piedmont slopes, and ranging mountains. The natural flora
and fauna also resembled that of the Basin of Mexico, with the exception of
the latter’s lacustrine biome. Likewise, the major human enterprise was agriculture, conducted along the flatlands and on up the piedmont to the zone
of risky frosts.
To the north and south of these three dominant valleys lay regions
included in Sanders’s (1956) “Central Mexican Symbiotic Region,” which
also encompassed the three central plateaus. This region is defined by its
intense and sustained degree of interaction – economic, political, social, and
symbolic – in pre-Columbian times. To the north of the Basin of Mexico,
across relatively low-lying hills, lay drier plains where agriculture was tenuous and reliance on maguey more important. Nonetheless, this was home to
the important Early Postclassic center of Tula. To the south lay the attractive
Valley of Morelos, which was some 1,000 meters below the Basin of Mexico.
This was warmer, wetter country and a popular “resort” area for Aztec kings.
Agriculture was more reliable in this land of hillsides and flatlands than on
the central plateaus (especially with the human intervention of irrigation
and terraces), and cultivation of more tropical crops such as cotton and various fruits was possible. Likewise, more temperate and tropical natural botanic
resources, such as copal (Bursera sp.) and amate (Ficus sp.), were available at
these lower elevations.6

The Broader Imperial Domain
Beyond this central Mexican interaction sphere lay diverse ecological realms to
the east, west, and south. To the east, the land drops dramatically from the central plateaus into a broken mountainous world and continues stair-step fashion
to the coastal plain (Figure 3.4). The persistent action of several rivers flowing

55

56

Aztec Society and Culture
from the altiplano east to the coastal plain has carved gaping barrancas in the
region leading to the coastal plain and has also provided important arteries
of transport and communication. The coastal plain itself runs more than 800
kilometers along the Gulf and extends as far as 72 kilometers inland to the
mountains. This entire region, wet and warm, lies within tierra templada and
tierra caliente, and Aztec-period natural resources ranged from the oaks, cedars,
and pines of the higher elevations to cacao, avocados, rubber, seashells, fish, and
shellfish in the lower and coastal reaches. Below approximately 1,000 meters,
two crops of maize can be harvested annually, and both white and brown cotton can be grown.
To the west of the Valley of Toluca, the Aztec imperial advance was blocked
by the powerful Tarascans. But the Empire extended to the southwest, and
routes through the fiercely rugged Sierra Madre Occidental drop precipitously
to a narrow coastal strip (less than 20 kilometers wide).The terrain is dramatic,
broken by fast-running rivers, but the climate is largely hot and dry. Aztecperiod natural resources included cacao, gold, gourds, seashells, and fish. Most
human settlement was along the coastal strip, and here people used irrigation
to produce cotton and the customary food crops.
The southern part of the Empire lay mostly in present-day Oaxaca, Guerrero,
and southwestern Puebla states. This was a hot, dry land of rugged mountains and valleys, ranging primarily from tierra fría to tierra templada. Natural
resources at the higher elevations consisted largely of oak and pine forests,
descending to semiarid thorn forests. Other resources included gold, pottery
clays, chert, basalt, maguey, and especially the treasured dye cochineal, along
with the cochineal insect’s host, the prickly pear cactus. The staples of maize
and beans were cultivated with the aid of irrigation. Even farther south, the
outlying Pacific coastal province of Xoconochco provided the Empire with an
abundance of tropical luxuries.

Beyond the Empire
The Aztec Empire’s relations did not end at its political borders. Beyond the
Empire, its ties were mainly economic, and they extended north, south, and
east. To the north lay vast deserts through which turquoise moved into the
Aztec Empire from as far north as the U.S. Southwest.To the south and east lay
broad coastal lowlands, interior rain forests, and the high volcanic mountains
of the Guatemalan highlands. These lands embraced all three elevation zones,
from tierra caliente to tierra fría. Here beyond the Empire’s military and diplomatic domain lay the complex and resource-rich Mayan world. Trade mediated by international trading centers was lively between these realms, the Aztec
rulers gaining access to treasured products such as precious feathers, jaguar
pelts, cacao, fine salt, amber, and precious stones.

Living on the Land

Figure 3.3. A stair-step schematic of the central Mexican plateaus. (From Wolf 1959: 7.
Courtesy University of Chicago Press.)

DEMOGRAPHY

Demographic issues persistently confound studies of the Aztec past. Just how
many Aztecs were there at the time of the Spanish arrival? How were they
distributed over the landscape? And what kinds of changes occurred in these
demographies over time?

Sorting Out the Numbers
It has become generally accepted in recent years that there were about 1 million Aztecs living in the Basin of Mexico at the time of the Spanish conquest,
and around another 2–3 million in the surrounding highland valleys.The usual
modern estimate for the urban population of Tenochtitlan ranges from 100,000
to 250,000, most estimates settling on 200,000–250,000.7 Population estimates
for broader areas are more problematic; for instance, numbers for the colonial realm of New Spain (much of central Mexico) range from 3,000,000 to
22,000,000 (Gerhard 1993: 22). These figures are all estimates, they are all contentious, and they all derive from different interpretations of (and approaches
to) varied and incomplete ethnohistoric, archaeological, and ethnographic
information.

57

58

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 3.4. A hilly
landscape of eastern Mexico.
(Photograph by Frances
Berdan.)

Consider population estimates for the 1519 Basin of Mexico, the core area
of Aztec imperial power. Such estimates range from a high of 2.96 million
(Borah and Cook 1963) to a low of 800,000 (Sanders 1981). Whitmore (1992)
arrives at an intermediate figure of 1.59 million, Gibson (1964: 141) at 1.5 million. Sanders’s multifaceted approach yields figures of 800,000 to 1.2 million
(1981: 151).
One reason for the uncertainty of the population numbers is the sketchy
ethnohistoric record and the difficulties involved in interpreting it. While the
Aztecs themselves apparently maintained censuses for obvious reasons of tribute collection, corvée labor assignments, and military conscription, none of
these has survived. Imperial tribute tallies assigned tributes by community, but
no information was included about the demographics of those settlements. For
documentary evidence, therefore, we must rely on conquest-period and early
colonial Spanish accounts.
Several Spanish conquistadores offer figures for sizes of communities, military forces, market participants, and “areas.” According to their own accounts,
they base these numbers on personal observation (Aguilar 1963: 162), inquiries of the natives (Díaz del Castillo 1963: 179), later examinations (Cortés

Living on the Land
1928: 47), or a combination of these. Their statements often vary wildly, even
when the soldiers were apparently observing the same body of natives. The
Anonymous Conqueror (1963: 178–179) reports the daily attendance at the
Tlatelolco market at 20,000–25,000, while Cortés (1928: 87) states 60,000.
Cortés (1928: 80) estimates Texcoco’s population at 30,000 inhabitants, while
Aguilar places this population at 80,000–100,000 or more houses (Aguilar
1963: 158). Cortés (1928: 43) reports that he faced a force of 100,000 warriors
on a battlefield, while his soldier Bernal Díaz del Castillo (1963: 144) records
46,000 for the same battle.8 The Spanish observers also based their reports on
different units, so the size of Tenochtitlan was estimated variously at 60,000
people (Anonymous Conqueror 1963: 178),9 100,000 houses (Aguilar 1963:
146), or the size of Seville or Cordoba (Cortés 1928: 86).10 It should be kept
in mind that these conquistadores were under considerable stress, were promoting their personal agendas, and perhaps saw only a part of the bigger picture.
The figures they report are also highly situational: numbers are given for some
settlements and not others, some military forces and not others, and so on. And
the actual sizes of “houses” varied considerably.11 Their figures also are generalized and invariably rounded off – themselves guesses or estimates. All of these
seemingly little differences become magnified into highly variable population
estimates.
Sixteenth-century colonial sources suffer from other difficulties, not the
least of which was the precipitous decline of the indigenous population,
due primarily to introduced epidemic diseases. By the time the Spaniards
had instituted systematic censuses, two major epidemics (1520–1521 and
1545–1548) and several more localized ones had already ravaged the native
population of much of present-day Mexico. The impact of these epidemics
was uneven across the landscape, and tropical areas were particularly hard
hit (see Chapter 8). Spotty collection of census information began as early
as 1522–1523 by Hernán Cortés, although little survives from those efforts.
A similar fate befell a wider census conducted in 1531–1532 (Gerhard 1993:
28–30). A more complete census survives from 1547–1550, but it unfortunately already reflects the severe depopulation wrought by epidemic diseases
(Gerhard 1993: 30). The Relaciones geográficas of 1579–1585 have also largely
survived, although by that time much of the native population had not, having been ravaged by yet another major epidemic (1576–1581). Perhaps closer
to reflecting pre-Spanish indigenous populations are some early (1530s to
the early 1540s) censuses in Nahuatl from communities (or parts of communities) in present-day Morelos (Cline 1993). These are early and written
in the indigenous language, yet they encompass only a small segment of
the overall native population and may or may not reflect broader demographies. In general, then, these sixteenth-century historical sources must
be used with caution as benchmarks for calculating the pre-Spanish native
population.

59

60

Aztec Society and Culture
Parallel lines of research based on archaeology began to yield interesting
demographic information in the 1970s. Spearheaded by William Sanders (1970,
1981; Sanders et al. 1979), a more comprehensive methodology was applied
to the reconstruction of indigenous, pre-Spanish populations. These included
consideration of relevant aspects of the natural environment, agriculture, and
settlement patterns, resulting in lower overall population estimates than established through ethnohistoric sources alone.
Sanders’s population estimates drew on the extensive Basin of Mexico
archaeological survey project, which also identified an unprecedented population surge during the Late Postclassic (1350–1521 AD).12 Sanders and his
colleagues (1979: 184) figure that the population during that time was doubling every one hundred years. This accelerated growth was to some extent
the result of immigration (see Chapter 2), especially affecting the northern
third of the Basin, which had been lightly populated during the prior
few centuries (Parsons 2008b: 90). In-migration may also have focused on
people with specific skills. Alva Ixtlilxochitl (1965: 69, 70, 158) relates that
luxury artisans, including manuscript painters, were encouraged to settle
at Texcoco; this derived either from direct political policy moving skilled
artisans to the urban center or from more voluntary moves based on the
perceived benefits of working in a lucrative and supportive atmosphere
(see Parsons 1971: 216). Preventing or discouraging out-migration also
would have contributed to the Basin’s sustained population growth. For
instance, in the mid-fifteenth century, the Mexica emperor Motecuhzoma
Ilhuicamina demanded a stop to the exodus of Chalcan commoners in
the wake of military disruptions (Parsons et al. 1982: 86–87). Chalco was
a breadbasket for the Empire, and its labor was as important as its fields to
the Tenochtitlan ruler.
This overall population growth was also a response to the availability of more
predictable agricultural food supplies based on significant increases in rainfall
(Smith 1996a: 378–379). As the population grew, greater food supplies were
required; this stimulated the use of intensified agricultural techniques, which
in turn allowed and encouraged larger populations, and so on.This growth did
not proceed unencumbered but was affected by empire building (with dominant polities desiring large numbers of subjects for tribute payments), political
machinations (sometimes resulting in population displacements), and warfare
and sacrifice (disproportionately reducing males over females). Famines and
other natural disasters also interfered with the general growth trajectory (see
Case 3.2).
The Basin of Mexico archaeological survey project also revealed extremely
high population densities throughout the Basin of Mexico in the Late
Postclassic. This was expressed in an increase in the size and overall number of
settlements (Parsons 1971: 244). While there was considerable settlement variation throughout the Basin (see Nichols 2004), Sanders arrived at an average

Living on the Land
figure of 200 people per square kilometer for the Basin as a whole (Sanders
et al. 1979: 219). As observed by Smith (1996a: 378), this is an extraordinary
figure for an early state. By the time the Spaniards set eyes on the Basin, virtually every habitable zone was occupied (Sanders et al. 1979: 200; Parsons
1971: 217).

Urban and Rural
Settlements throughout the Basin of Mexico (and beyond) consisted of a wide
variety of community types. The Basin of Mexico archaeological survey project identified several different scales of settlement, ranging from small dispersed rural hamlets to large imperial capitals, and numerous special-use sites
such as saltmaking stations and shrines (Sanders 1981: 152, 189). Residential
sites have been classified as (1) rural, consisting of hamlets, small villages, and
large villages based on sizes from less than 100 to 1,000 persons; (2) local centers with some occupational specialization and usually containing 2,000–5,000
persons; and (3) supraregional centers, or imperial capitals (Sanders 1981: 152).
This wide variation in settlement size and function suggests a heterogeneous,
complex, and dynamic landscape.
By far the largest settlement in the Late Postclassic Basin of Mexico was the
island city of Tenochtitlan, at around 200,000–250,000 inhabitants. Estimates for
the next-largest cities top out at around 25,000–40,000 for Texcoco (Nichols
2004: 272; Smith 2008: 152) and 23,000 for Huexotla (Smith 2008: 152), both
on the eastern edge of Lake Texcoco. Other Basin of Mexico city-state capitals
exhibited populations ranging from 600 to 13,500, with the typical capital at
around 5,000 inhabitants (Smith 2008: 152). In terms of area, Tenochtitlan is
estimated to have covered approximately 12–15 square kilometers, while the
other Basin city-state capitals averaged around 1 square kilometer (Sanders
1981: 190; Smith 2008: 152).
Tenochtitlan, therefore, was strikingly atypical in terms of both population size and area. In addition, it has been suggested that the inhabitants of
Tenochtitlan were largely nonagriculturalists (Calnek 1972: 114; Sanders et al.
1979: 154–155), consisting of political elites, religious functionaries, craft specialists, and multitudes of other individuals providing a wide range of services
(such as household servants, barbers, porters, and prostitutes).13 Still, counted
among Tenochtitlan’s citizens were also numerous people living on chinampas,
whose agricultural production would have served at least some of their own
subsistence needs (see also Smith 2008: 67–68).14
The Basin of Mexico was crowded with a dense rural population, people
occupying virtually every productive ecological zone. Dispersed rural settlements especially dominated the landscape in areas of chinampa and terrace
cultivation, where it was convenient for people to live close to their fields
(Nichols 2004: 274). These settlement arrangements indicate a “tendency for

61

62

Aztec Society and Culture
individual houses, or small clusters of individual houses, to be broadly and continuously dispersed over the landscape” (Sanders et al. 1979: 163–166), often
making it difficult to discern on the ground where one settlement ended
and the next began. This suggests that this dispersed pattern conformed to a
different set of social and political imperatives than simply urban versus rural
and reminds us that these settlement types are constructions of archaeologists
and ethnohistorians and may not reflect native conceptions at all. Indeed, the
native perception of community was likely quite different, making little distinction between urban and rural and instead focusing on the altepetl, or citystate, as a comprehensive unit encompassing both urban and rural components
(Lockhart 1992; Smith 1996a: 383–385; Nichols 2004: 283; Hicks 1984: 167; see
Chapter 5). Indeed, nobles and commoners lived in both urban and rural settings, and there appears to have been “little difference between city and countryside in the lives and activities of Aztec commoners” (Smith 2008: 151). In
addition to similarities in lifestyles, people living in city and countryside were
linked by markets, marriages, religious ceremonies, and even systems of rotational labor that periodically drew rural peoples into the cities and “hindered
the development of a clear distinction between rural and urban, or between
peasant and proletarian” (Hicks 1984: 166).
Indeed, there were some matters of life that all shared, initially those things
we find in the realm of subsistence. How were the basic needs of the large
numbers of people in Late Postclassic central Mexico met? How were they
fed, clothed, and generally provisioned in a manner to which they were
accustomed?
THE ACQUISITION OF FOOD AND OTHER NECESSITIES

Here we address the essentials of anyone’s life in the Late Postclassic Aztec
world, focusing on food but with some reference to clothing and housing (the
comforts will come later).15 This is also a good place to embrace the theme of
heterogeneity. It is usually fairly easy to distinguish “commoner” from “elite”
in documents and on the ground, as there was, in general, a discernible material gulf between these two broad social statuses. Elites had more. And better.
More food, more clothing, more and larger rooms in their houses. Better food,
more ornate clothing, finer floors, and painted walls. That said, recent research
has nonetheless concluded that things were not quite so simplistic and that
there was some overlap in wealth between commoners and nobles, pointing
to a “fluidity of wealth and privilege beyond the simple noble–commoner
distinctions” and emphasizing “the multidimensional nature of Aztec eliteness”
(Garraty 2000: 333–334; Smith 1994). The same kind of diversity can be seen
among commoners. In the documentary record, we are acquainted with prosperous professional merchants (pochteca); although they were commoners, their
wealth (at least portable wealth) would have exceeded that of many persons

Living on the Land
of noble birth. With these considerations in mind, it is still useful to speak of
commoners and nobles in terms of their usual circumstances of life. We may
still speak of nobles and commoners at the same time recognizing considerable
variations within these broad categories.

Provisioning an Aztec Household
commoner houses
A “typical” commoner house in the Aztec Basin of Mexico, including
Tenochtitlan, consisted of a collection of rectangular rooms (calli) arranged
around an open patio (ithualli), creating groups of rooms housing from two to
six related nuclear families (Calnek 1972: 111; Evans 1988: 28; see Chapter 6).16
Each such compound may have been enclosed by a stone, adobe, cornstalk,
or rush wall, creating an inward-looking arrangement (Calnek 1972: 111). In
these layouts the individual rooms faced onto the patio and in most cases
would have been the residences of individual families (Lockhart 1992: 65;
Figure 3.5). Nonetheless, some of the rooms may have had specialized functions, providing space for storage, workshops, or religious worship (oratory).
An enigmatic “woman-house” called cihuacalli may have been the focus of
women’s household activities (Evans 2005; Lockhart 1992: 63, 66).17
The presence of an open courtyard allowed for the patio group’s expansion and contraction; individual rooms could be (and were) added or demolished as the life history of the local group demanded.18 Around the patio,
individual calli tended to be at least somewhat separate from one another,
although Tenochtitlan (and nearby Mexicaltzinco) gives an impression of
more crowding than settlements elsewhere (Lockhart 1992: 63–65; Smith
2008: 166; Ávila López 2006). Throughout the broader central Mexican
region, these rooms were used mainly for sleeping, cooking, eating, storage,
and general protection from the elements, natural and supernatural. As is
the case today, many of the day-to-day domestic activities took place out of
doors, and the patio would have served as a focus for household production
and interaction.
As to size, excavated houses at Cihuatecpan, in the northeastern part of the
Basin of Mexico, averaged 88 square meters and contained from three to eight
rooms (Evans 1988: 26; 2005: 211). At Mexicaltzinco, a lake area just south of
Tenochtitlan, single-room houses (xacalli or jacales) situated on chinampas measured 20 square meters, with more elaborate dwellings measuring twice that
size (Ávila López 2006: 308). Surveys at Ixtapaluca Viejo suggest house sizes
around 100 square meters, with some residences larger than 300 square meters
(Blanton 1972). In Tenochtitlan, native sixteenth-century multi-room colonial
houses, probably replicating their pre-Hispanic past, measured from 140 to
416 square meters (Lockhart 1992: 61; Calnek 1972: 112). In nearby Morelos,
excavations of commoner houses have revealed a variation on these Basin

63

64

Aztec Society and Culture

a

b

Figure 3.5. (a) An Aztec-period commoner house excavated at Capilco, Morelos, by
Michael E. Smith. (Photograph by and courtesy of Michael E. Smith.) (b) A twentiethcentury peasant house in central Mexico. (Photograph by Frances Berdan.)

of Mexico arrangements: single-story, single-room dwellings were usual and
averaged 26 square meters, with a larger commoner house at 77 square meters
(Smith 1999: 149).
It can be seen that there was considerable variation in commoner
household size (and, by implication, household composition and perhaps

65

Living on the Land

Figure 3.6. Icnocalli: a
humble or poor commoner’s
house. (From Sahagún
1950–1982: book 11, illus.
898. Courtesy University
of Utah Press. Reproduced
with permission.)

affluence) within and between communities. Excavations and documentary
sources make it clear that nonelite houses also varied in terms of construction. In general there appears to have been little difference between urban
and rural housing for most commoners, although urban settings appear to
exhibit a wider range of living standards, as expressed in house size and
construction materials. Excavated houses in central Mexico were made of
adobe or wattle and daub, were set at ground level or on low platforms, and
had floors of packed earth sometimes covered with gravel or (more rarely)
a lime plaster (Evans 1988: 33; Smith 1999: 145, 146). Roofs were perhaps
pole and beam in the Basin of Mexico (Evans 1988: 33) and thatch in the
warmer Morelos valley (Smith 2003d: 134). These are generalizations, and
construction materials and styles varied depending on environmental conditions, available materials, cultural traditions, and probably a dash of personal preference. For instance, Sahagún (1950–1982: book 11, 271–275; illus.
893–918) describes and illustrates twenty-three types of commoner houses
(Figure 3.6), distinguishing them mainly by construction materials (e.g.,
reeds, wood, stone, or adobe), shape (e.g., squat, round, small, or narrow),
and quality (ranging from the sumptuous merchant’s house to the “small
house like a pigsty”). It must be assumed that these houses were, at any one
time, in some stage of the building life cycle: under construction, finished,
in need of repairs, or repaired – hence the house itself commanded different commitments of time and energy from its householders at different
times.
In the commoner house, a hearth served as the cooking center and was
defined by three hearth stones (Burkhart 1997: 29). In multi-room houses,
cooking may have taken place in a small separate room or in the courtyard
(Evans 1988: 34). Near the hearth the woman (or women) of the house stored
and used the essential stone and ceramic kitchenware: a grinding stone (metlatl or metate), ceramic grater (mocaxitl or molcajete), cooking griddle (comalli),
knives, bowls, pots, jars, and various types of serving wares (Figure 3.7). Storage

66

Aztec Society and Culture

a

b

Figure 3.7. (a) A molcaxitl (molcajete) for grinding up chiles and other foods.
(Photograph by Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy Field Museum, catalogue no. 93835.) (b) A
tripod serving dish. (Photograph by Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy National Museum of
the American Indian, Smithsonian Institution, no. 027169.)

Living on the Land

Figure 3.8. Generalized layout of a noble’s palace with large central courtyard and
royal dais. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

boxes contained clothing and other personal possessions and were the specific
target of thieves (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: book 3, folio 70r). Other material goods in the room represented the occupants’ primary activities: women’s spinning and weaving tools, men’s agricultural or fishing equipment, and
perhaps materials used in the production of a special craft such as pottery or
stone tools. And judging from the prevalence of small figurines and censers
unearthed in excavations of Aztec dwellings, household ritual was also an
important component of domestic life. The room had virtually no furniture,
although some houses may have had benches along one or more walls (see
Evans 1988: 34). For sleeping, the occupants laid out woven reed mats (petlatl)
at night, rolling them up in a corner during the day. Also resting against the
wall were the ubiquitous broom, hoe, and digging stick (when not in use in
garden or field). General heating inside the house was supplied by portable
braziers (Evans 1988: 34).

elite houses or palaces
A noble’s house (tecpan or tecpancalli) was far more expansive and elaborate
than the usual commoner’s house in both area and amenities. Indeed, elite
houses were of an entirely different magnitude. Nonetheless, their layouts
bore a general resemblance to those of commoner residences with their
focus on an enclosed courtyard (Figure 3.8). This open area was very large,
with numerous adjacent rooms opening onto it; for instance, the palace

67

68

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 3.9. Decorated spindle whorls. (Photograph by Frances Berdan. Courtesy
Field Museum, catalogue nos. 96061–2, 96061–1.)

at Cihuatecpan had twenty-one rooms, Nezahualpilli’s Texcocan palace is
schematically shown with thirteen rooms, and palaces at Chiconautla and
Calixtlahuaca contained a warren of rooms leading off from the central
patio (Evans 1988: 28; Mapa Quinatzin 1920: leaf 2; Elson 1999: 156; Smith
2008: 116). Some of these rooms provided living space (keeping in mind that
these were large, polygynous households), but other rooms may have served
specialized functions, providing the household’s occupants with separate
sweatbaths (temazcalli), kitchens, and workrooms, some connected by corridors or hallways (Evans 1988: 118–133; Elson 1999: 156–159). The elite
house or palace was not only a residence, but also the venue for the noble’s
political and social life: advisers were forever present, diplomats and messengers came and went, courts of law were held, and tribute was received
and stored. Elaborate feasting and religious rituals punctuated otherwise
repetitive activities.
Elite houses or palaces were built on elevated platforms and were large,
sometimes extraordinarily large. In the imperial capital of Tenochtitlan, rulers’ palaces ranged from an estimated 7,950 to 25,425 square meters for three
Mexica rulers, the palaces becoming larger over time (Smith 2008: 117).19 Just
beyond the Basin of Mexico, excavated rulers’ palaces range from 2,000 to
6,800 square meters; other excavated noble houses from within and beyond
the Basin of Mexico are smaller, ranging from 200 to 540 square meters (Smith

Living on the Land
2008: 117; Fargher et al. 2011a: 310–312). In a relative sense, noble houses were
noticeably larger than the houses around them; the tecpan at Cihuatecpan was
four times the size of its neighboring houses (Evans 1991: 88). Although few
noble houses or palaces have been excavated, it can be seen that much as commoner houses varied in size, so too did noble houses. One important determinant of that variation appears to have been the range of political control
and importance of the noble and, by extension, his traditional lineage: the
palace’s scale and elegance reflected the resident noble’s political importance.
Nobles were ranked, and that social and political reality was reflected in their
dwellings.
Houses of the elite were built of adobe, finely finished, and perhaps lavishly
painted. The foundations were deep and of stone, the platform of cut stone,
the floors and walls plastered and stuccoed, and the roofs and door jambs supported by wood beams. At the Cihuatecpan noble house, “cut stone, carved
stone, adobe for the floors, stucco for the walls, expanses of rich red paint –
nothing had been spared in the construction of the teuctli’s house” (Evans
1991: 88). One diagnostic characteristic of these elegant dwellings was the
inclusion of large ornamental ceramic and pumice cones, which are depicted
in the codices and have been found archaeologically (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 11, illus. 889–890; Elson 1999: 158). The walls were decorated with paint
and mosaic: red was a popular color. In terms of construction, the noble
house was “a product of skill: formed with skill” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
11, 270).
The rooms of these elite houses were elegantly appointed, displaying the
noble’s status and wealth. Exquisite textiles may have hung across doorways. Still, furniture was of little concern, although the head of household,
as an important noble, would sit importantly on a woven mat or seat with
a back (icpalli). Added amenities included additional patios, stone hearths,
a kitchen, a granary, and one or more sweatbaths (Elson 1999: 156; Evans
1988: 118–133). The noble house contained much the same sorts of equipment and material goods as were found in commoner houses (such as
cooking and serving wares and spinning implements): just more of it, of a
finer quality and representing higher-status production, and more imports.
For example, the palace at Chiconautla contained many more cotton
spindle whorls than maguey ones, cotton being the more esteemed fiber
(Figure 3.9; Elson 1999: 160). That same palace yielded cups for drinking
pulque and chocolate, suggesting special feasting and/or ritual activities
(Cohen and Elson, n.d.).
These elite houses combined large-scale residential and administrative functions: many people resided there, many visited, many needed to be fed, clothed,
and housed, and many were available to provide for the extensive activities of
such a large household. Simply put, the broad social and political obligations
of the noble and his household required an expansive household infrastructure.

69

70

Aztec Society and Culture
This varied considerably in scale; imperial palaces far outdid the “usual” noble
house in size and grandeur, and imperial rulers also enjoyed sumptuous pleasure palaces and gardens as retreats (see Chapter 6).

food, drink, and clothing
People in both elite and nonelite households spent an undetermined amount
of time maintaining their houses’ structural integrity and their members’
essential equipment, as well as procuring necessities such as fresh water, firewood, and medicines. Yet clearly the bulk of daily effort was expended in
the endless provisioning of food and clothing for household members. In an
elite household, while the noble himself may not have been directly active
in procuring and preparing these essentials, most of his household (including
his wives) was.
The Aztec diet was built around numerous varieties of cultivated maize,
beans, squashes, and chiles. Maize was a carbohydrate-rich grain, beans added
protein, squashes and chiles provided essential vitamins and minerals.Additional
foods included amaranth seeds and greens; chia;20 various fruits and vegetables
such as avocados, nopales,21 tomatoes, and quelites (referring to a wide range
of “greens”); pulque; and, for the aristocrats, chocolate. This diet was far from
bland, with special flavorings available from vanilla, maguey syrup, honey, salt,
various flowers, and, of course, chiles. In the Basin of Mexico and northern
Mesoamerica, maguey (metl) was particularly important as a source of syrup
and pulque. In the words of Sidney Mintz (1985), this overall diet consisted of
a “core complex carbohydrate and flavor-fringe supplement.” Animal domesticates were few, but turkeys and dogs were occasionally thrown into the pot,
as were wild creatures such as rabbits, armadillos, deer, fish, salamanders, ducks
and other birds, and a host of edible insects and their larvae.22 Most people in
the Aztec world were farmers and so acquired most of their meals by their own
efforts. Nonagricultural specialists acquired cultivated staples in other ways,
most commonly by frequenting the many markets held throughout the realm.
Seasonality of harvests and regional availability of certain foodstuffs meant
that even farmers sometimes relied on markets to meet their needs on a daily
basis.
While the maize tortilla was the mainstay of the daily diet, it was combined
with these many other foods depending on availability, ritual calendar, household affluence, and (as everywhere) personal preferences. With such a wide
range of foods available, it is no surprise that there were many interesting and
tempting combinations, such as leaf-shaped tortillas; tamales stuffed with amaranth greens; turkey with green chiles; tadpoles with small chiles; maize gruel
of chia, squash seeds, and chiles; and small prickly pear cactus fruit with fish
eggs (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 37–39). While the daily fare in a commoner
household might be rather monotonous, the meals in an elite household were
more extensive and more varied, and lavish feasting on a large scale occurred

Living on the Land
periodically, resulting in a flurry of activity among household members. Meals
were eaten two or three times daily (Coe 1994: 110), although we do not
know the portions consumed. Individual cacao-drinking vessels would have
held, on average, one-quarter to one-half of a pint, while pulque-drinking vessels contained, on average, one-half to two-thirds of a pint of beverage.23 The
Codex Mendoza (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folios 58r–60r) indicates that
children aged 3–14 were given from one-half to two tortillas, depending on
their age. However, it is not clear what this means: tortillas came in different
sizes and they were served with additional ingredients. These rations may be a
metaphor. Aztec parents were clearly concerned about their children growing
up to be hearty individuals; they even stretched them at the monthly ceremony of Izcalli to ensure their successful growth (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
2, 165–166).
Cooking methods included stewing, boiling, or steaming (as with tamales)
in an olla, cooking in a pit oven lined with maguey leaves, and preparing gruels
and a multitude of sauces or casseroles (Coe 1994: 109–116).24 Most of these
methods initially required the endlessly hard work of grinding maize kernels
into a flour, a task requiring several hours of labor by one or more household
women.25 Some women prepared an overabundance of food and sold it as fast
foods in the market – these ranged from many types of tortillas and tamales to
cooked stews and gruels (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 37–39; book 10, 69–70).
The great variety of these prepared market foods suggests a lively consumer
trade: obviously not everyone ate every meal at home, or perhaps this served
as “take-out.”
Provisioning a household with food on a daily basis required knowledge
and planning at whatever social and economic level. Seasonal and regional
variations were at least somewhat offset by the extensive market system. The
Basin of Mexico served as the Aztecs’ breadbasket. But the Aztecs were also
interested in agricultural production beyond this core zone: several nearby
conquered city-states paid regular tributes in ample supplies of staples, fertile
coastal areas served to bail out the Aztecs in times of severe famine, and certain
highly prized products (such as cacao, special chiles, and vanilla) made their
way into Aztec tribute stores and markets.
Given the vagaries of highland agriculture, storage was an important consideration. The shelf life of some products (such as three-day pulque) was short.
Other foods, especially pinolli made of ground maize, amaranth, or chia could
be stored long enough to be taken on military campaigns (Coe 1994: 118–119).
Chia, especially, “could be stored for months and even years before being used
to prepare food” (Ayerza, Jr., and Coates 2005: 66). A further consideration
was wastage, of which there appears to have been relatively little. For instance,
maize kernels were eaten (probably by domesticated dogs as well as humans),
the maize stalk was chewed, exuding a sweet sap, the tassels were used medicinally, and a smut fungus (huitlacoche) that occasionally grows on the ears was

71

72

Aztec Society and Culture
eaten as a delicacy (Vargas and Casillas 2001: 391). Apparently, waste was not
approved of; indeed, it was a religious affront to drop a maize kernel and
not pick it up.26 As another example, maguey was used in the preparation of
aguamiel (honey water) and pulque, it supplied fibers, needles and thread, as well
as leaves for lining cooking pits, and it served as a working base for preparing
feathered mosaics. Magueys were planted as fences and as protection against
erosion on terraces, and today, at least, serve as supports for drying laundry.
Much as commoner and elite households can be distinguished by scale, variety, and sumptuousness of their food provisions, so too can clothing. Clothing
was one of the most overt indicators of one’s status: officially, commoners in
the Basin of Mexico were expected to wear the coarser maguey fiber clothing, while the more prestigious (and smoother-textured) cotton was reserved
for the nobility. In addition, commoner clothing was plain, noble wear highly
decorated.27
Spinning and weaving were domestic activities learned ideally by all women,
who were expected to acquire these skills by age 14 (Berdan and Anawalt 1992:
vol. 3, folio 60r).28 Spinning and weaving tasks were intermittent, picked up
and put down as necessary and readily integrated into other household routines. Spun thread was produced on spindles weighted down by whorls (usually
ceramic); the heavier maguey fibers could be spun in the air, while the more
delicate cotton fibers were usually spun with the aid of a small spinning bowl
in which the spindle “danced” (Figure 3.10).29 Weaving was accomplished on
backstrap looms, producing cloth that could be worn directly off the loom.
Archaeologically, all that usually remains of these activities are the whorls, spinning bowls, and picks used in aligning the threads during weaving.
Ceramic spindle whorls and spinning bowls are found widely distributed
in excavated Aztec houses, whether humble or elite (Smith and Heath-Smith
1994: 357; Nichols 1994: 180, 184; Hicks 1994: 95). However, a greater number of these artifacts have generally been uncovered in noble houses.30 This
is expected, since spinning was women’s work, and noble households were
typically polygynous and also could draw on dependent labor from nearby
households. It might also be expected that there was an emphasis in noble
houses on the spinning of the more prestigious cotton. Excavations at the
noble house at Chiconautla revealed ceramic whorls for spinning both cotton
and maguey fibers, although the cotton ones far outnumbered the maguey
ones (182 to 42) even in this maguey-growing area (Elson 1999: 160). Artifact
assemblages from the noble house at Cihuatecpan, however, reveal a more
even distribution of cotton and maguey whorls.31 Another pattern pertains
in maguey-growing areas. At Otompan, spindle whorls for spinning maguey
fibers were found in concentrations associated with maguey-processing activities, suggesting the presence of workshops focusing on the production of
maguey fiber materials. At the same site, cotton spindle whorls were found
evenly distributed, suggesting cotton spinning as a general household activity

73

Living on the Land

a

b

Figure 3.10. (a). Small bowl for
steadying a lively spindle.
(Photograph by Frances Berdan.
Courtesy National Museum of the
American Indian, Smithsonian
Institution, no. 121496.)
(b) A young wife spinning, using
spinning bowl. (From Berdan and
Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 68r.)
(c) A woman today spinning
brown cotton. (Photograph by
Frances Berdan.)

c

74

Aztec Society and Culture
(Nichols et al. 2000). The more specialized nature of maguey fiber production might have been due to its convenient link with other aspects of maguey
production (such as pulque).
The maguey-commoner/cotton-noble distinction may have worked pretty
well in the highlands, but it was less significant in the lowlands. In highland
regions, where maguey was grown, commoner women produced maguey
cloth for their own household use and in some areas for tribute; they also
spun (and presumably wove) cotton cloth for tribute and perhaps marketplace trade, ultimately having to procure both maguey and cotton (although
they may have been careful not to wear such garments in public, they did
produce and possess them). In the lower elevations, where maguey plants did
not grow, we find commoners spinning cotton but very little maguey (Smith
2003d: 86).32 There, it is likely that commoners as well as nobles wore cotton clothing, and persons of different statuses were more directly identified
by their garments’ degree of decoration. In terms of household provisioning,
it appears that the more prestigious cotton traveled readily across ecological
boundaries, while maguey did not and production from this plant remained
a localized activity (perhaps associated with maguey’s wide distribution in
highland environments).
Looking at the general picture of noble and commoner houses and their
everyday provisions, there were noticeable differences between elite and
nonelite dwellings and amenities. But there was also a considerable range
of affluence within both social categories, and even some overlap. Not all
commoners, or all nobles, were alike. This theme of variation is an important
consideration in our understanding of Aztec life and will reappear throughout this book.

Agricultural Techniques and Technology
Throughout Late Postclassic Mesoamerica, agriculture provided the staff of
life.The Aztecs and their neighbors invested heavily in agriculture, and it is the
use of their array of cultivated crops and agricultural techniques, technologies,
and knowledge that concerns us here.
By the time the Aztecs arrived in the Basin of Mexico, maize, beans,
squashes, chiles, maguey, and a host of hearty and nutritious plants had long
been domesticated, hybridized, and cultivated by means of sophisticated and
successful techniques. While the Aztecs added little that was distinctly new to
the agricultural enterprise, they did employ existing techniques on a much
grander scale, and more intensively, than did their predecessors.
In the Aztec heartland and beyond, Late Postclassic farmers engaged in
agricultural strategies that put considerable pressure on agricultural success.
Agricultural techniques and technology were devised to suit local ecologies as
well as to provide for household economic, social, and political needs: beyond

Living on the Land
daily sustenance, any surplus foods were exchanged for other needed goods
and services, were used socially and ceremonially to cement interpersonal
bonds, and were applied to the inevitable tax and tribute payments. Since each
farming household differed somewhat from others in terms of agricultural
potential and obligations, this resulted in considerable diversity in individual
cultivation practices.
Population growth and intensive agriculture went hand in hand. By the early
sixteenth century in central Mexico, it was imperative that the food supply be
both abundant and reasonably reliable to sustain the expanding populations.
Beyond that, it has been argued that large and dense populations were necessary to construct the infrastructures (especially hydraulic) on which increasingly intensive agricultural systems were built (Parsons 1991). Yet agriculture
has always carried risks. In the Basin of Mexico, for instance, these included
early frosts, late rains, droughts, and hoards of pests (see Case 3.2). Nature must
be accommodated, and while the timing of rains and frosts was roughly predictable, these natural schedules were not perfect year to year. It was particularly
calamitous if the rains arrived late and the frosts came early, thus shortening the
growing season. Rain could be too little (droughts) or too much (floods), and
ravenous pests or even a hailstorm might swiftly destroy carefully tended crops.
Human intervention on the land sometimes increased production risks; for
instance, overplanting could result in depleted soils, planting on slopes could
prompt erosion, and diverting water courses for irrigation could alter natural
hydraulic resources in unanticipated ways.Whether induced by nature or people, serious famines occurred in the history of the Aztec Empire, and were well
remembered.What strategies did the people employ to minimize risks to their
agricultural yields?
Depending on landscape and resource potentials, Aztec farmers had at their
disposal a number of effective techniques to reduce risks and indeed intensify
agriculture. Much of this intensification was accomplished by altering the natural landscape and controlling hydraulic resources through terracing, irrigation,
drained fields, and chinampas. Beyond landscape modification and control of
essential water supplies, additional practices such as fallowing, multicropping,
the use of seedbeds and fertilizers, and the planting of household gardens, also
enhanced the farmer’s chances of success. While these many techniques were
used throughout Mesoamerica in appropriate environments, they were also
all found within the Basin of Mexico. To convey a sense of these techniques
as risk-reducing and problem-solving strategies, it is convenient to focus this
discussion on that Basin’s diverse, lake-dominated ecology.

terracing
Terracing was an ideal means of ensuring continued productive agricultural
yields on the sloping hillsides of the Basin’s piedmont. By the time of the
Spanish arrival, terracing was “generalized over virtually all of the sloping

75

76

Aztec Society and Culture
terrain of the basin from the lower to the upper piedmont” (Sanders 1981:
192). Terraces were constructed in two general ways.33 On the more gentle slopes, earth embankments were built up and lined with maguey, while
steeper slopes required more substantial retaining walls provided by stone
block constructions. Both styles of terrace construction involved fairly rough
construction methods and irregular layouts, suggesting a lack of centralized
planning or coordination (see Smith 2003d: 68). In both cases, the terraces
improved soil depth and water retention: they stabilized the soil, inhibited
erosion, and trapped precious water that arrived seasonally, sometimes in torrents (see Evans 1988: 10). Terraces as defined structures also served to delineate property lines, and where maguey was used, the by-products of those
multipurpose plants were exploitable. Settlements associated with terracing
tended to be dispersed, and Sanders and his colleagues (1979: 251) assert a
direct association between the distribution of houses and the location of
terraces.

irrigation and drained fields
Control of precious water resources through irrigation was achieved on
many scales in the valleys extending from lakeshore to piedmont. Through
irrigation, water was diverted, transported, and distributed to cultivated fields
from rivers and streams (which sometimes overflowed in the rainy season),
as well as from springs. Irrigation techniques ranged from the building of
small dams with low-investment canals diverting water to nearby plots, to
floodwater irrigation arrangements, to complex, large-scale canal systems
watering vast cultivated areas. It is likely that this wide range of scale, complexity, and investment reflected household, community, and state levels of
involvement in the construction, maintenance, and control of these water
control systems.34
During Aztec times, “every available tract of land was most likely being
irrigated intensively, and virtually every type of water control system known
was being employed” (Doolittle 1990: 149). With most of these lowlands
now covered by an expanding Mexico City megalopolis, there are relatively few traces of these irrigation works.35 However, early colonial ethnohistoric sources frequently mention irrigation, although with few details.
The most elaborate hydraulic project documented historically (and with
physical remains) was the diversion of the course of one river to another in
the realm of Cuauhtitlan (in the northwestern Basin of Mexico). The rivers
were joined through the construction of an artificial channel 6 kilometers
long, with additional canals excavated at roughly the same time. The project
required some seven years, reaching completion in 1435 (Bierhorst 1992:
103). The entire hydraulic assemblage provided needed water to a droughtprone area, protected the city of Cuauhtitlan from periodic flooding, and
created as much as 1,000 hectares of irrigable land (Doolittle 1990: 117).

Living on the Land
According to the Anales de Cuauhtitlan (Bierhorst 1992: 103), the Cuauhtitlan
ruler “apportioned laborers” to the project, although the basis and extent
of this labor assignment were not specified. Was the work part of a peasant’s expected corvée labor duties, tied to a broader tribute requirement,
or perhaps a special labor assessment? Aside from the laborers, it is clear
that skilled engineers were involved, although, again, there are no statements
about how that labor was acquired or entailed. Other extensive hydraulic
projects included the construction of a lengthy dike across Lake Texcoco to
control flooding and salinity levels on the western side of the lake. Further
ambitious waterworks were associated with pleasure domains, such as that at
Tetzcotzinco (Parsons 2002), and with the numerous gardens associated with
royal palaces throughout the Basin. For instance, the palace of the ruler of
the city-state of Ixtapalapan included ornate sunken gardens with “pools of
fresh water” and a “fine lake of fresh water . . . and within the lake there are
innumerable fish and birds” (Cortés 1928: 67–68).
While numerous aqueducts were built during Aztec times, the construction
of the lengthy dual-channel aqueduct bringing fresh water to Tenochtitlan
from springs in Chapultepec was a particularly ambitious project involving
expert engineering skills, a large labor force, and an established organizational framework (Cortés 1928: 92–93; Doolittle 1990: 120–127; see Case 3.3).
Not all such undertakings were successful. Witness the failed aqueduct project spearheaded by the Mexica ruler Ahuitzotl in 1499, which resulted in a
catastrophic flooding of Tenochtitlan and possibly led to the death of that
supreme (and stubborn) ruler himself (Durán 1994: 362–373).36 Building that
aqueduct, fed from springs in Coyoacan to the southwest of Tenochtitlan,
required the forced efforts of laborers summoned from several conquered
city-states, along with the skills of “the best masons to be found in the provinces” (Durán 1994: 365).
Successful or not, such large-scale enterprises were stimulated by the need
to solve specific problems of water availability. The constructions themselves
not only required large initial investments, but also necessitated diligent maintenance by “men whose work it was to enter springs in order to clean them,
maintain them, and repair drains and cracks through which the water could be
lost” (Durán 1994: 365).
Permanent canal irrigation especially dominated farmed fields along the
alluvial plains in the Basin of Mexico and increased the extent and especially
the reliability of agricultural productivity: it augmented natural rainfall (which
could be somewhat serendipitous) and also extended the planting season by
providing early-season watering.37
In some areas along the alluvial plains a high water table posed threats to successful agriculture. The Aztecs opened up such lands to cultivation by draining
them and establishing a suitable balance of soil and water for sustained agricultural production. Drainage ditches were dug and the water drained off by

77

78

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 3.3 An Engineering Marvel:The Chapultepec Aqueduct
The Aztecs, their neighbors, and their predecessors were all expert architects
and engineers. This can be seen in the precision with which they built their
monumental temples, laid out their splendid cities, and constructed their massive hydraulic works. Controlling water was a supreme priority for the Aztecs:
their lake environment offered abundant food and water, but was also threatened by floods and high salinity, and fresh water was not immediately or consistently available to the urban megalopolis of Tenochtitlan.The construction of
aqueducts was an important and known solution to the problems of freshwater
availability. The building of the aqueduct from the springs at Chapultepec to
the center of Tenochtitlan was the most ambitious and successful of the Aztecs’
water transport projects (Braniff de Torres and Cervantes 1966, 1967).
In building their aqueducts, the Aztecs drew on achievements and skills
developed as many as 1,500 years before their time (Doolittle 1990: 126). The
Chapultepec-to-Tenochtitlan aqueduct seen by Cortés in 1519 (1928: 92–93)
was actually the second aqueduct spanning that course. Construction on the
first conduit began in 1418. It was built on a foundation of staggered artificial
islands about 3–4 meters apart (Doolittle 1990: 122). Mud mounds were built
up on each island, wooden stakes were driven into each mound for support,
and a single trough was hollowed out at the top of each mound and lined with
compacted clay. These troughs, along with hollowed-out logs connecting the
islands, served as channels for the transport of fresh water. This aqueduct lasted
only about thirty years, being destroyed by a flood in 1449.
The Aztecs learned from this experience and built a bigger and better contrivance (Figure C3.3). The new aqueduct appears to have been constructed
on the base of the earlier one, but with significant improvements. First, it was
built higher, which allowed protection from flooding as well as the ability to

Figure C3.3. The Chapultepec aqueduct. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

Living on the Land
move the water greater distances where the base was uneven (as surely the artificial islands would have settled over time). Second, it consisted of two parallel
channels, allowing one to be cleaned and repaired while the other carried the
water. According to Cortés (1928: 92), each channel was “two paces broad and
about as high as a man.” Third, the troughs themselves were lined with mortar.
According to Doolittle (1990: 126), “[N]ot only was it larger in every respect,
but it was constructed with permanence in mind.” A great deal of planning
went into this project.
As heads of the most powerful city-state in central Mexico, the rulers of
Tenochtitlan commanded sufficient resources to construct waterworks such
as this aqueduct on an unprecedented scale. A later aqueduct project, during
the rule of Ahuitzotl (r. 1486–1502), was equally ambitious but was undertaken
without the same foresight that had been applied to the Chapultepec aqueduct
project. Its water flow was excessive, a calamitous flood ensued, and the construction had to be dismantled.

means of existing seasonal streams. According to Sanders et al. (1979: 275), these
“ditch networks” would have required a large capital investment and considerable organization. Nonetheless, these efforts opened up previously marginal
lands to agriculture along the plains and near the lakeshore. Clearly, hydraulic
control in terms of directing water flows and managing water amounts and
availability was central to the development of large population concentrations
in the Late Postclassic Basin of Mexico. Conversely, the construction of largescale waterworks could not be achieved without a sufficient population of
laborers, skilled engineering specialists, and a political system capable of coordinating such complex enterprises.
CHINAMPAS

A specialized agricultural technique involved the creation of raised fields
in shallow lakebeds. These chinampas were constructed by defining a rectangular area in a shallow part of the lake, stabilizing it with stakes, and
piling up alternating layers of mud and vegetation until the plot extended
about a meter above water level. The plots were stabilized by the planting
of willow (ahuexotl) trees initially at each corner and then along the sides.
As the chinampa matured, the farmer sometimes established his house on
the raised field, providing him with the convenience of proximity to his
work. Although a chinampa served as a farmer’s primary agricultural field,
in these cases it could be treated much like a house garden; being adjacent
to the house itself, it would have been the recipient of household protection and refuse. It appears that a single family may have worked more than
one chinampa: wills from early colonial Culhuacan repeatedly demonstrate
this, with plots often appearing in units of seven (Cline 1984). While chinampas were worked by individual farming households, the degree of state

79

80

Aztec Society and Culture
involvement in their construction remains an open question. Certainly
the primary Basin of Mexico city-states were deeply involved in the construction of waterwork infrastructures (such as dikes and aqueducts). More
specifically, Sanders et al. (1979: 280–281) argue that the “extraordinary
regularity of the chinampa plots . . . indicates centralized direction or planning.” At the very least, a well-orchestrated coordination of labor efforts is
suggested by this uniformity, especially during the planning and construction stages; this may have been undertaken by local lords or at the city-state
level. On the other hand, some chinampa areas exhibit less regularity and
may represent more individualized projects (Smith 2003d: 72–73; Sanders
et al. 1979: 280).
The sizes of chinampas varied considerably: they usually ranged from 2 to 4
meters wide and from 20 to 40 meters long (Parsons 1991: 21). However, Ávila
López (2006: 321) excavated pre-Hispanic chinampas in Mexicaltzinco that
measured from 3 to 5 meters wide and from 6 to 30 meters long. Chinampa
plots within concentrated urban settings tended to be smaller than those in
more rural, outlying areas (Berdan 2005: 27). Chinampas were arranged parallel to one another, leaving open canals for convenient transport and for field
irrigation (dipping into the canals served to water the fields, fertilize the fields
with lake muck and aquatic vegetation, and also keep the canals themselves
dredged and open).
Chinampas were built in the southern Lakes Xochimilco and Chalco, the
western portion of Lake Texcoco, and to a lesser extent in the northern lakes
of the Basin. This technique required fresh water and flood protection; the
southern and northern lakes were fed by springs and rivers, and the massive
dike constructed across Lake Texcoco in the fifteenth century ensured protection from excess salinity and water runoff from the eastern part of Lake
Texcoco. Chinampas could be constructed only in shallow waters, so they
tended to be built out from lakeshores and around islands.38 It is estimated
that by 1519 most of the area of the southern lakes and much of the lakeshore area of western Lake Texcoco was converted into chinampas (Sanders
2004: 68).
This was the most intensive agricultural system in the Aztec world. There
is, however, disagreement on just how productive this system actually was.
Parsons and colleagues (1982) suggest that most of the people living in the
Xochimilco/Chalco region were chinampa farmers, their labors not only providing their own sustenance but also yielding sufficient surpluses to supply
nearby urban centers, including Tenochtitlan. Sanders (2004: 68) calculates
that chinampa cultivation in the southern lake area would have yielded harvests sufficient to feed the resident population of 65,000, along with surpluses
for an additional 100,000 people. In contrast, Calnek (1972) concludes from
his documentary investigations that the chinampas in Tenochtitlan would have
yielded only 5–15 percent of the farming family’s food requirements and that

Living on the Land
the value of farming these lands at all may have stemmed from their specialized
production of vegetables and flowers, which the farmer could exchange in
nearby marketplaces for his household’s daily fare. Chinampas in Tenochtitlan
could have been perceived and used differently than those in less urban and
more dispersed areas, but clearly more research is needed here. The expandability of this system also had political implications, with surpluses directed to
powerful centers (such as Tenochtitlan), where they could underwrite expanding urban specializations, governmental bureaucracies, market activities, and
military enterprises (Brumfiel 1991a: 61).
The high, sustained productivity of these plots was achieved through multicropping, crop rotation, soil replenishment/replacement, and the use of staggered seedbeds, along with augmentations of water and natural fertilizers from
adjacent canals. The southern lakes, especially, were frost free and enjoyed
higher precipitation than the northern lakes, and plantings of different crops
could be scheduled throughout the year: chiles planted in late September,
tomatoes in October, squash in February, and so on (Gibson 1964: 321). It
should be no surprise that these areas were responsible for paying the highest
levels of staple food tribute in the Aztec Empire.39 At least three to four and
as many as seven different crops a year could be produced under this regime
(Smith 2003d: 70–71; Armillas 1971).The use of seedbeds greatly enhanced the
efficiency of this system: the farmer could prepare seedbeds of one crop while
another was maturing, and he enjoyed higher returns for his efforts since only
germinated plants were transplanted. Multicropping also contributed to the
plots’ high productivity: both staple crops (such as maize and amaranth) and
garden produce (such as tomatoes and herbs) were grown on chinampas. Plant
remains uncovered from excavated chinampas in Ixtalapan and Mexicaltzinco
include amaranth, tomatoes, maize, quelite, epazote, and datura (Ávila López
1992, 2006). Considering the intensiveness of the agricultural strategies of irrigation, drained fields, and chinampas, it should come as no surprise that “most
of the major population centers in 1519 were located near lakeshores” (Sanders
et al. 1979: 232).

household gardens
Rural residents, and many urban ones as well, invariably had gardens adjacent
to their houses.These small plots, called calmil (house garden) in Nahuatl, were
used to grow maize, vegetables, fruits, herbs, medicinal plants, ornamentals –
whatever served the immediate needs of each particular household.These plots
were conveniently tended (and protected) by any able family member and, as
dumping grounds for domestic refuse, tended to maintain high fertility levels,
normally higher than those of other types of fields. This was also the domain
for any household turkeys and dogs, which also would have provided natural
fertilizing. Seasonal surpluses from these plots, although invariably small, could
be traded in nearby marketplaces for other needed goods or services. House

81

82

Aztec Society and Culture
gardens supplemented food production on separate fields (in rural areas) or
augmented more specialized economic activities (usually in more urban areas).
For Cihuatecpan, Evans (1988: 23) suggests that each house enjoyed a house
garden averaging about half a hectare (resulting in a dispersed settlement pattern). Similar arrangements may have pertained in the more urban Texcoco
(see Hicks 1984).

additional strateg ies
Whether farmers cultivated their crops in terraced, irrigated, chinampa, or house
garden settings, they had at their disposal a number of additional yield-enhancing and risk-reducing practices. Among these were fallowing, multicropping,
and the use of fertilizers. Fallowing allowed a plot of land to rest and rejuvenate, naturally enabling the soil to recuperate for another round of planting.
This strategy, however, also necessitated large tracts of land.40 Multicropping
(also called intercropping) involved the cultivation of a wide array of plants on
a single plot. This carried important benefits: inhibiting pest damage, preventing erosion, maintaining soil fertility, and providing staggered harvests as the
different plants completed their growing cycles at different times. Aztec farmers were well aware of the benefits of added organic material in enhancing soil
fertility. For instance, they speak of a type of good soil called tlalauiyac: “I fertilize it. I add humus to it. I make it mellow. I make it good” (Sahagún 1950–
1982: book 11, 252). Other fertile soils included tlaçollali (humus turned into
soil) and quauhtlalli (soil with rotten wood or oak leaves). Lacustrine insects
may also have served as a fertilizer (Parsons 1996: 444). Lands such as atoctli and
atlalli (irrigated lands), along with chinampas, were repeatedly replenished by
waterborne materials (Parsons 1996: 251–252; see also Sanders et al. 1979: 240).
And, of course, house gardens benefited from daily waste materials generated
by household activities.41
the farmer and his tools
Aztec agriculture was hand agriculture. Wherever he cultivated, the farmer
needed to set boundaries, prepare the soil, make furrows and hills for planting,
dig holes, sow seeds, weed, water, weed some more, and harvest his crops – all
manually. In highly vegetated areas, he also needed to clear the native vegetation. All of this was accomplished with a relatively uncomplicated toolkit
consisting of different types of digging sticks, hoes, various styles of axes, and
bags and containers of different sorts (see Figure 6.2). During the month of
Etzalcualiztli, offerings of food and pulque were made to hoes, sowing sticks,
spades for digging the earth, and carrying devices, indicating their ritual as well
as practical significance (Durán 1971: 431–432).
These tools were made of readily available materials, were relatively easy to
manufacture, were available in the marketplaces (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8,
68; Díaz del Castillo 1963: 233),42 and would have been easy to replace if broken or lost. Most fundamental were digging sticks and hoes (uitzoctli and uictli),

Living on the Land
which were made of a hardwood (oak was popular) with the tip sometimes
fire-hardened or enhanced with a metal (copper) tip.43 These implements were
used for digging holes in the earth, planting, turning the soil, weeding, hilling
up corn – true multipurpose tools. Axes made of stone or copper with wooden
handles were required for cutting trees and generally clearing vegetation. Bags
or baskets of various fibers, reeds, gourds, or armadillo shells were used to
carry seed; ceramic, wood, or gourd containers were employed in watering the
growing plants (Rojas Rabiela 1984). In addition, farmers devised scarecrows,
traps, and perhaps poisons to protect their crops from birds, rodents, and other
pests (Rojas Rabiela 1984: 197).
This relatively simple technology masks built-in complexities and strengths
of these food-growing systems. Aztec agriculture relied on sophisticated techniques, ranging from terracing to irrigation to the use of chinampas, from
multicropping to fallowing to the use of fertilizers. These techniques necessitated an extensive engineering, climatic, ecological, biological, and agronomic
knowledge base. They also required well-honed skills, organizational expertise, and an energetic work ethic on the part of the farmers. It should come as
no surprise that Sahagún’s informants describe the “good farmer” as “active,
agile, diligent, industrious: a man careful of things, dedicated” (1950–1982:
book 10, 41).

Nonagricultural Food Resources
While agriculture was the primary food-getting activity, people throughout
Mesoamerica depended on a wide variety of additional plants and animals
to complement their diet. Most universal were domesticated dogs and turkeys; both supplied meat, and turkeys additionally provided eggs. Arguably also
domesticated were the Muscovy duck, bees, and various birds such as macaws
and parrots (Valadez Azúa 1999).44
A wide range of wild plants and animals were also included in the Aztec diet.
Availability and exploitation of these resources varied considerably depending
on local ecologies, seasons, access to markets, household affluence, ecological
knowledge, and other factors (see Case 3.4).
In the lake-dominated Basin of Mexico, edible lacustrine resources
included “algae, insects and insect eggs, frogs, salamanders, turtles, several species of fish and their eggs, several species of small crustaceans, and vast numbers of waterfowl and their eggs” as well as tadpoles, various amphibians,
and salt (Parsons 2008a: 39; Gibson 1964: 341; Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11,
63–64). The acquisition of these resources involved techniques of collecting algae (tecuitlatl) with very fine nets (Hernández 1959: vol. II, 408–409;
Motolinía 1971: 327–328);45 netting small fish and insects (Hernández 1959:
vol. II, 395–396; Parsons 2006: 128–145); netting fish eggs (Hernández 1959:
vol. II, 396); attracting insect eggs (ahuahtli) (Hernández 1959: vol. II, 392);46

83

84

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 3.4 Thinking Like an Aztec 1:The Natural World
The Aztecs made full use of their environmental offerings by drawing on
extensive ecological experience and knowledge based on both hunter-gatherer
and sedentary agricultural backgrounds. They accomplished this by interacting
with these diverse, densely packed, and busy environments on both natural and
supernatural planes, combining empirical observations with religious beliefs.
This dual approach resulted in specific attitudes and behaviors that defined
their place in the natural world.
The Aztecs were a practical people. They attributed observable, pragmatic,
and utilitarian qualities to natural features and living things. Some features of
the landscape posed perils; for instance, mountains were craggy, precipitous,
and icy, containing dangerous gorges and “deathly” precipices. Mountains also
provided habitats for dangerous beasts (tecuani).* A cave was “a frightful place.”
Rivers (“running water”) were powerful and had the capacity not just to
frighten, but also to drown people. The sea (ocean) was likewise frightening
and terrifying (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11, 258–263). Mountains, caves, rivers, and the sea were all the homes of dreaded, even man-eating wild beasts.
But of these important features, mountains, especially, could also be beneficent
in their natural offerings in that they were the sources of water and wood. And
while rivers and streams could be ominous and deadly, they also sustained life;
when sweet and quiet, water sources were “good tasting, savory, life-giving,
our sustenance, our soul, our freshness” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11, 249).
This was especially true of wells, springs, and lakes, the latter also providing
reeds, fish, and a multitude of other useful resources.
Beyond the landscape, the diverse and animated world of animals and plants
was also viewed in practical terms. The Aztecs appear to have classified animals as quadrupeds, birds, aquatic creatures, and terrestrial animals (including
insects), emphasizing their habitats and perhaps their means of locomotion
(Olivier 1999).† Native classifications of plants are less clear, although trees
and herbs seem to have been major categories (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11,
105–220). The Aztecs were well acquainted with plant and animal anatomy,
physiology, life cycles, and behavior patterns. They described living things in
great detail, suggesting a long history of observations. For example, they knew
that resin from the copal tree exuded only during the dry season, that the
tlatzcan tree was long-lived, that the opossum’s fur color changed with age,
that hummingbirds became dormant in response to seasonal and temperature
changes, and that locusts reproduced underground (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
11, 187, 106, 11, 24, 96). But, to the Aztecs, behavior patterns were more important than physical attributes, and some of these behaviors were directly applicable to their daily lives. For instance, the American bittern’s nocturnal singing
predicted heavy rains, and the song of the necuilictli bird warned of imminent
frosts (Berdan 1995).
The Aztecs also imbued nature with more abstract, symbolic, and metaphoric
qualities. In their worldview, all aspects of the natural world were infused with

Living on the Land
animated qualities and supernatural forces: their environment was energetic
and active, and capable of continually affecting their daily lives. For instance,
mountains were considered “magic places” filled with life-giving and lifethreatening water, much like a large pot or, more to the point, a womb. The
deity Chalchiutlicue, goddess of springs and rivers, owned these waters and was
good enough to offer them to human beings for their sustenance (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 11, 247). People offered her material gifts in gratitude, but
also out of fear that if she “became angered they would meet with misfortune”
(Durán 1971: 269).
There barely existed a myth, ritual, or deity that did not involve animals
or plants as leading or supporting characters: the god Quetzalcoatl obtained
maize for humans with the help of an ant, the Mexica patron deity was directly
associated with the hummingbird, amaranth seeds were formed into idols, and
ritual offerings often consisted of quail, serpents, and cultivated crops. Creatures ranging from jaguars to serpents to golden eagles to a richly adorned
canine were ritually buried in offerings in Tenochtitlan’s ceremonial precinct
(López Luján 2005; Olivier 1999; Polanco 1991; see Figure 1.7). On a more
personal level, a dangerous, greatly feared shaman with evil intent could transform himself into a nocturnal beast such as an owl and perform villainous
acts. And most of the calendric day names were animal names, to which an
individual’s fate was attached at birth (see Chapter 6). In their view, the Aztecs
were intimately intertwined with all other players in this “supernatural natural
world.”
* Today, among the Nahua of the Sierra Norte de Puebla, the monte is considered to be
a dangerous, unfathomable place.
† See Hopkins 1980 for animal classifications based on locomotion among the
Chuj Maya.

spearing larger aquatic fauna (Linne 1948); and netting, snaring, and spearing
waterfowl (Linne 1948; Hernández 1959: vol. II, 319–354; Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 11, 26–39, 58). Waterfowl were either native or seasonally migratory
(especially arriving in the winter dry season), attracted by the abundance of
aquatic vegetation, fish, insects, and insect eggs in and around Lake Texcoco
(Gibson 1964: 341–342; Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11, 26–39). Hernández lists
thirty edible varieties of waterfowl, and Sahagún mentions more than forty
types. Many of these birds nested around the lake, and their eggs were an
important source of food for Basin residents.The 1550 Santa Cruz map (Linne
1948) illustrates tall netting apparatuses designed for ensnaring these birds by
men working from canoes. Salt was available along the shores of the eastern
part of Lake Texcoco, where it was extracted by means of solar-evaporation
or leaching-boiling techniques (Parsons 1996: 446–450).The resulting salt was

85

86

Aztec Society and Culture
transported in specialized containers (fabric-marked pottery) for sale in the
Basin marketplaces. Today several of these resources continue to be exploited:
netted insects are either used immediately at home or drowned and dried for
later use or exchange, insect egg nurseries are prepared, and salt continues to
be produced (Parsons 2006: 145, 1996).47
All of these resources were astoundingly abundant, some of them seasonally. Hernández (1959: vol. II, 392, 396) speaks of the incredible abundance of
fish eggs produced by a “multitude” of fish, as well as the enormous quantities
of insects and insect eggs covering portions of Lake Texcoco. Parsons (2008a:
41) estimates that edible insects may have amounted to “thousands of metric
tons” annually and that the potential annual production of the other edible
aquatic resources combined could have amounted to “at least many hundreds
of metric tons annually.” In the eighteenth century, even as the lake resources
were dwindling, an annual consumption of 900,000–1,000,000 ducks was estimated (Gibson 1964: 343). Similarly, in the early seventeenth century it was
estimated that more than a million fish were annually caught in the southern
freshwater lakes (Gibson 1964: 340). In addition to this abundance, many of
these resources were eminently storable, especially through drying, and several of these resources were traded in the marketplaces and thus experienced
efficient regional distribution (see Chapter 4). In light of the abundance, wide
availability, and high protein content of these lacustrine resources, their significance in the Aztec diet cannot be underestimated. Their importance is further
suggested by the presence of “water folk” specialists in the extraction of these
resources, as well as the likely presence of lake and lakeshore property delineations and rights (Gibson 1964: 340–341: Hernández 1959: vol. II, 408–409).
Parsons (2006: 330) speaks of the “domestication of wetland resources” in the
sense that the lakebed peoples not only exploited but actively managed their
lacustrine environment.
Away from the lakeshore, wild floral and faunal resources were likewise
abundant. Wild plants, some of them cultivated but not necessarily domesticated, were found in house gardens, open areas along the alluvial plains, and
into the piedmont and forested mountains. Among them were nopal cacti,
fruit and nut trees, and a host of plants that provided herbal and medicinal
supplements. Edible terrestrial mammals included deer, rabbits, hares, armadillos, pocket gophers, and other small rodents and reptiles. Most were ensnared
in nets, although deer were hunted with bows and arrows. Some of these animals provided additional by-products in the form of skins and furs (e.g., deer
and rabbits), containers (e.g., armadillo shells), or medicines (e.g., opossum
tails, powerful expectorants not to be taken casually). Quails and quail eggs
were eaten, although most birds other than waterfowl were sought mainly for
their feathers. Some nonaquatic insects were adjuncts to the diet, especially
grasshoppers and maguey worms, while the honey produced by bees provided

Living on the Land
one of the few sweeteners in this diet (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11, 49, 93–94,
96, 98). Like the aquatic flora and fauna, these terrestrial resources significantly
complemented the Aztec diet.
Archaeological investigations indicate expected ecological differences in
the exploitation of these many nonagricultural food resources. For instance,
the saline eastern side of Lake Texcoco was the setting for salt production,
insect/insect egg collection, and the netting of waterfowl (Parsons 1996;
Linne 1948), and individuals may well have specialized in these activities
(Parsons 1996). In a different ecological realm, evidence from Chalco (on
the shore of freshwater Lake Chalco) suggests exploitation of both lacustrine
and terrestrial environments, with a diversified use of rabbits and deer, waterfowl and quail, frogs and turtles, squirrels and armadillos, dogs and turkeys
(Fabiola Guzmán and Polaco 2008).48 It is not known whether these resources
were directly exploited by the people of Chalco or acquired by trade. The
Aztec-period Chalcans were clearly involved in extensive trading networks,
and among the resources unearthed were also exotic fauna, notably marine
mollusks from both coasts and the collared peccary from outside the Basin
of Mexico (Fabiola Guzmán and Polaco 2008: 315). In the region of the
northern Basin lakes, the residents of Xaltocan likewise exploited lacustrine
and terrestrial resources, with dogs and turkeys, rabbits and hares, ducks and
geese, and smaller numbers of reptiles and amphibians and very few fish. As
with Chalco, some marine mollusks were found, suggesting distant exchange
relations (Valadez Azúa and Rodríguez Galicia 2005). These lakeside peoples, north and south, took advantage of the wide array of resources available to them in sustaining their households, exchanging surpluses, and paying
their tributes. While agriculture was their mainstay, nonagricultural resources
offered the Aztecs additional provisions, and their significance should not be
underestimated.
Food production in the Aztec domain beyond the Basin of Mexico was
dominated by agriculture, but people’s diets were also complemented by additional important resources, both domesticated and wild. Although no other
highland valley in this realm enjoyed a lake system comparable to that of the
Basin of Mexico, most of the same terrestrial resources were exploited. In the
warmer reaches of the Empire and beyond, cacao and vanilla were important
products, and a variety of coastal and marine creatures provided significant
edibles.
There were further variations in the exploitation of nonfood resources,
most of which were in the hands of specialists. In the Basin of Mexico lime
was concentrated in the northwest and obsidian in the northeast. Cochineal
was popular in the Pueblan and Oaxacan Valleys. And in more temperate and
tropical regions, cotton, greenstones, metals, fine feathers, and a host of marine
resources were produced and available. The imperial powers demanded some

87

88

Aztec Society and Culture
resources and materials in tribute, but most of these varied food and nonfood resources reached the imperial heartland through mercantile activities.
The specialized nature of nonagricultural production within and beyond the
Basin of Mexico and the intricacies of commercial exchange are the subjects
of Chapter 4.

C hap t e r 4
C R A F T S P E C I A L I Z AT I O N, C O M M E R C E ,
AND TRADE

And at the beginning, when the infant was taken to be bathed, if it was
a boy, they carried him with his symbol in his hand; and the symbol was
the tool used by the infant’s father, whether of the military or professions
like metalworker, woodcarver, or whatever other profession.... And if the
infant was a girl, the symbol they gave her for bathing was a distaff with its
spindle and its basket, and a broom, which were the things she would use
when she grew up.
Codex Mendoza, folio 56v (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, 118);
originally written ca. 1541
The merchant is a seller, a merchandiser, a retailer; (he is) one who profits,
who gains; who has reached an agreement on prices; who secures increase,
who multiplies (his possessions)....The good merchant (is) a follower of the
routes, a traveler.
Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 42–43; originally written
1575–1577 or 1578–1580

The Aztec world was a world of specialists. In the political sphere there were
royal advisers, ambassadors, military officers, judges, tax collectors, and scribes,
along with a bevy of administrators and palace servants. Royal palaces could
support intellectuals such as philosophers and astronomers, skilled architects
and engineers, trained zoo and aviary caretakers, gardeners, and performers for
the amusement of the ruler. In the world of religion, there were hierarchies of
priests for every deity, supported by teachers, “composers of songs,” and cadres
of priestly assistants. In the subsistence realm, it is likely that most food producers cultivated an assortment of crops or sought a variety of wild resources.
Yet some foods, such as turkeys and their eggs, pulque, salt, and aquatic fauna,
may have been available through specialized efforts (see Chapter 3). The service sector of the economy included barbers, porters, collectors of fresh water,
masons, midwives, physicians, astrologers, and prostitutes. Numerous regional
traders and long-distance merchants plied their trades full time.
And there were the innumerable artisans who manufactured the great variety of utilitarian and luxury goods used by people from all walks of life. These
89

90

Aztec Society and Culture
goods included textiles, pottery, stone tools, mats, nets, baskets, sandals, paper,
weapons, books, musical instruments, and finery fashioned from precious
metals, valuable stones, and tropical feathers. Production of these objects was
achieved by part-time or full-time artisans, involved one stage or many, and
was geared toward commoner and noble consumers. The nature, organization,
and dynamics of such craft production and the place of craft specialization in
the broader spectrum of economic production are the subjects of the first part
of this chapter.
CRAFT SPECIALIZATION

Specialization in the production of material goods reached a high level of
diversity and intensity during Aztec times. In part, this was possible because
of the food surpluses created by increasingly intense systems of agriculture,
complemented by an abundance of nonagricultural resources. These surpluses
released some persons, either partially or fully, from food-getting activities,
allowing them to concentrate their time and energy in pursuing other production avenues. In part also, high levels of craft production were related to the
demographic surge in the Late Postclassic, providing large bodies of producers
and consumers of needed or desired goods. And also in part, these material
specializations were stimulated and maintained by the increasing commercialization of the Late Postclassic, facilitating relatively efficient and effective
flows of raw materials and finished goods on local, regional, and supraregional
levels.
Costin (1991, 2001) analyzes craft production along several different dimensions, including diversity, scale, intensity, concentration, organization, and the
social context of production.These dimensions are useful here, with the added
consideration of the production process itself (Berdan et al. 2003b: 97–99).

Diversity of Production
Gary Feinman (2001: 192) suggests that early craft specializations in Mesoamerica
focused largely on elite crafts – fine goods geared toward use and display by an
aristocracy and exchanged over long distances.1 This was in Early Formative
times, but by the Late Postclassic a wide range of both utilitarian and elite
goods was being manufactured by specialized producers.
In Aztec times, luxury crafts focused on featherwork, gold and silver metallurgy, fine stonework, mosaics of precious stones and shells, pictorial books,
and fine decorated textiles and ceramics. The most prized raw materials
derived from beyond the imperial core: colorful feathers from tropical regions,
gold from the southern highlands, turquoise from northern Mexico and the
American Southwest,2 jadeite from southern Mesoamerica, shells from both

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

Figure 4.1. Tribute sources of precious materials. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

coasts, and cotton from throughout the lowlands (Figure 4.1). The use and
display of objects fashioned from these precious materials were restricted to
the aristocracy, the priesthood, and the state: this finery decorated godly idols,
enriched ceremonies and state events, and bedecked elite persons (Case 4.1).
Some stonework (whether of precious stones or lowly basalt) was religiously
and politically inspired; for example, massive monuments were sculpted to
exalt gods, rulers, and the achievements of city-states (see Case 1.2).
Utilitarian crafts included the manufacture of a wide range of ceramic
cooking and serving wares, ceramic ceremonial objects such as censers and
figurines (Figure 4.2a), a variety of stone tools, reed mats, baskets, sandals,
paper, decorative stamps (Figure 4.2b), tobacco tubes, musical instruments,
farming implements, spindle whorls, ordinary textiles, and weapons – the
whole range of useful tools and objects found in most Aztec households,
commoner and elite.
Evidence for the diversity of Aztec craft production is gleaned from both
ethnohistoric and archaeological sources. Ethnohistorically, virtually every
craft (and its raw materials) was recorded as present in the famous Tlatelolco
marketplace.3 These included luxury wares made of shimmering tropical

91

92

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 4.1 Thinking Like an Aztec 2:The Luxury Artisan
What did it take to be a luxury artisan in Tenochtitlan in, say, AD 1500? What
was your attitude and approach to your craft, and how did that relate to your
background, your training, and your support group? In short, what did it take
to be successful?
The luxury artisans worked in exotic, expensive materials such as tropical
feathers, fine stones, precious metals, and marine shells. There was little room
for error with these expensive materials, so a great deal of planning and groundwork went into the preparation of the fine piece to be fashioned.
Sahagún’s informants tell us that “the good craftsman [is] a willing worker,
patient, calm” (1950–1982: book 10, 25), working carefully and skillfully. More
specifically, the featherworker was also “ingenious, imaginative,” the goldworker “observant” and “skilled of hand,” the copper caster “wise,” “imaginative,” and “adroit,” and the lapidary “informed” and a “designer of works of
skill” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 25, 26). All were taught to be honest and
trustworthy.
This was the ideal, and descriptions of “bad” artisans indicate that the ideal
was not always met: a featherworker might be “a destroyer of good work,”
a goldworker “a pilferer, a robber of part [of the gold],” a copper caster a
hasty and dishonest worker, and a lapidary a noisy, inept worker. In general,
unacceptable attitudes included dishonesty and laziness, and objectionable
behaviors involved carelessness, wastefulness, hastiness, and basically damaging or destroying the product and its materials (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10,
25, 26).
Artisans learned their craft and its morality from their parents and others
around them. These associates were a tightly knit group, and all of an artisan’s
good and bad attributes and achievements were readily known and critically
evaluated. A high quality of life for an artisan depended on conforming to
the ideals of the trade, informally enforced by the immediacy of co-workers.
Rewards were considerable, often involving rights and privileges to actively
participate in the celebrations of the craft’s patron deity.
Well-trained and skilled luxury craftsmanship can be seen in the meticulous workmanship of existing objects. Consider, for example, the manufacturing of the turquoise mosaic disk shown in Figure C4.1. The artistry required
knowledge of religious symbolism and well-honed mechanical skills. The
stones were chosen carefully for size, shape, and color, most of them only
slightly larger than a pinhead. The artisans also displayed a frugal side, reusing and recycling pieces from other objects when available and appropriate.
All the pieces were arranged meticulously, in accordance with a well-planned
design. Their actual placement on the wooden backing must have required
supreme patience, given their small size and variable colors and shapes. The
entire design, with its chosen stones, most likely was first laid out without
adhesive, the stones arranged and rearranged, and then rearranged again, until
the desired effect was achieved (as is documented for featherwork mosaics).
When the artisan was satisfied, an adhesive was spread on the backing and the

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

a

b

Figure C4.1. (a) Finely crafted turquoise mosaic disk. (Photograph by Frances
Berdan. Courtesy National Museum of the American Indian, Smithsonian
Institution, no. 108708.) (b) Detail. (Courtesy National Museum of the American
Indian, Smithsonian Institution, no. 108708.)

93

94

Aztec Society and Culture
stones carefully attached. It is safe to say that this object was manufactured by
an accomplished artisan.
Adhesives applied to similar objects were pine resin, copal, or beeswax;
sometimes combinations of these were used. Experiments at the Laboratory
for Ancient Materials Analysis at California State University, San Bernardino,
indicate that mixtures of pine resin and copal yield a stronger bond than
either of the substances individually, suggesting that an artisan’s choice to mix
these adhesives was not random, but rather based on practical and scientific
experiences.

feathers, precious metals, valuable stones, and fine cotton – some sold by the
artisans themselves and others purveyed by professional merchants. Also present in that marketplace were artisans who burnished, varnished, and painted
gourds; carpenters who worked woods into beams, pillars, lintels, poles, planks,
and the like; those who fashioned digging sticks; those who made mirror
stones; those who cast copper into bells, needles, axes, and awls; those who
spun feathers for embellishing fine cloth; those who dyed rabbit fur; those
who wove maguey fiber; those who made rope; and those who cured leather
(Sahagún 1950–1882: book 10, 78–92). There were also weavers of maguey
fiber capes and manufacturers of smoking tubes, baskets, mats, cane objects,
brooms, and sandals. A broad range of pottery products is mentioned for this
largest of markets, including braziers, basins, pots, griddles, pitchers, ladles,
water jars, flat cooking plates, sauce vessels, and cups (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 8, 69; book 10, 83) (Figure 4.3). The obsidian blade maker is repeatedly mentioned and was adept at producing a wide range of objects (perhaps
on order), including blades, razors, single-edged knives, double-edged knives,
and “swords” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 85; Díaz del Castillo 1963: 233;
Anonymous Conqueror 1963: 179). There were also those who made swords
and shields, according to observations by the Anonymous Conqueror (1963:
179). There may even have been taxidermists, as suggested by Cortés’s mention of “the skins [of birds of prey] complete with feathers, head, bill and
claws” for sale in the Tlatelolco marketplace (1928: 87) and the archaeological discovery of just such specimens in a Templo Mayor offering (Quezada
Ramírez et al. 2010).
The Tlatelolco marketplace was the largest and most diverse in all of central Mexico, offering “every article in use among the people” (Anonymous
Conqueror 1963: 178). It provided a market for the local urban artisans but
also attracted crafts produced beyond Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco itself. Outside
that major urban complex, can we ascertain what sort of craft production was
tied directly to the smaller surrounding city-states themselves? Durán (1971:
278) mentions cloth, fine gourds, and “exquisitely worked ceramics” as notable

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

95

b

a

Figure 4.2. (a) Pottery molds with figures.
(Photograph by Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy Field
Museum, catalogue nos. 3992–1, 3993–1.)
(b) Pottery stamp. (Photograph by Jennifer Berdan.
Courtesy Field Museum, catalogue no. 94838.)

commodities in the Texcoco market.4 In the mid-sixteenth-century colonial
Coyoacan marketplace (Anderson et al. 1976: 138–149), manufacturers were
designated by the suffix -chiuhqui (maker) and included those who crafted clay
vessels, ceramic pots (comitl) and griddles (comalli), smoking tubes, baskets, mats,
metal objects, cane, obsidian blades, clay bells, sandals, tumplines, wood products, maguey fiber garments, cloth borders, spindles, and looms or loom parts.5
Similar goods were recorded for other early colonial markets in the Basin, with
some variations, such as the availability of gourd containers, grinding stones,
and small canoes in Xochimilco and Acolman in 1551 (Gibson 1964: 356).
While many of these goods could have been produced outside these market
towns, the localized nature of the markets suggests a more restricted commercial perimeter than that of the Tlatelolco market.
Archaeological investigations at Huexotla (in the eastern Basin) and Otompan
(Otumba),Teotihuacan, and Tepeapulco (in the northeastern Basin) offer additional clues about the diversity and extent of craft production in the Basin of
Mexico and place those industries within specific communities (Figure 4.4).
All of these centers were substantial Postclassic city-states in themselves, but
paled by comparison to the Tenochtitlan megalopolis. Research at Huexotla
has yielded small dispersed occurrences of blades, scrapers, and jars used in the
production of maguey syrup; obsidian blades; small and large spindle whorls for
spinning cotton and maguey fibers; ceramic molds for making spindle whorls,
figurines, and urn adornments; and stone projectile points for hunting, along
with small clay balls for blowgun hunting of birds and small game (Brumfiel
1987: 107). Aztec-period Teotihuacan specialized in the production of blades,
scrapers, and other tools of obsidian, as did nearby Tepeapulco (Spence 1985;

96

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 4.3. Black on orange
pitcher. (Photograph by
Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy
National Museum of the
American Indian, Smithsonian
Institution, no. 027184.)

Charlton 1978). Otompan appears to have been more craft-oriented than any
of these, with specializations in obsidian and basalt tools; obsidian earspools
and other fine stone ornaments; ceramic censers, figurines, molds and spindle
whorls; and cotton and maguey thread (Otis Charlton et al. 1993; Nichols
1994: 180; Otis Charlton 1994).
In the central highlands beyond the Basin of Mexico, the range of artisans
tends to resemble those from these Basin city-states. In nearby Morelos, just
to the south of the Basin of Mexico, local Aztec-period people were weaving cotton textiles and manufacturing chert tools, obsidian blades and jewelry, bark paper and ceramic molds for figurines, spindle whorls, and censers
(Smith 2003c: 252–254). To the east, 1560 Huexotzinco enjoyed the presence
of woodworkers, mat makers, basket weavers, sandal makers, potters, painters
and scribes, featherworkers, tobacco tube makers, and flower workers (perhaps
arrangers) (Prem 1974; Brumfiel 1987).
Farther afield, a great diversity of craft specialists was found in every niche
of the Aztec domain and beyond. A glimpse at the Aztec tribute rolls reveals
that most of the material goods delivered to the Aztec capitals arrived in the

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

Figure 4.4. Map of notable craft communities in the Basin of Mexico. (Drawing by
Jennifer Berdan.)

form of partially or fully manufactured objects. These ranged from plain and
highly decorated textiles to feathered warrior costumes, gold ornaments,
fine stone beads, lip plugs, copper bells and axes, bowls, paper, smoking
tubes, reed mats and seats, and wooden carrying frames (Berdan and Anawalt
1992: vol. III).

97

98

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 4.5. A father teaching his
son the fine art of lapidary work.
(From Berdan and Anawalt 1992:
vol. 4, folio 70r.)

Strategies and Decisions in Craft Production
It can be expected that such diversity in craft production would have yielded
a wide variety of production decisions and strategies. These involved scale,
intensity, concentration, organization, and the social context of production.

scale
In the Aztec world, most material objects, whether luxury or utilitarian, were
manufactured in household settings by household members. Craft skills and
knowledge, from weaving to metalwork, were passed from parent to child
(Durán 1994: 468–469;6 Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. III, folios 56v–60r, 70r)
(Figure 4.5). It might be presumed that the household crafting toolkit would
also be passed to children within the household, as suggested by the symbols given to infants when they were bathed (quoted at the beginning of this
chapter).
Some material objects were produced in small amounts strictly for household consumption (“household production,” the term used by Peacock 1982),
but many goods were produced in larger quantities and destined for market
exchange (Peacock’s “household industry”). The extent of any household’s
involvement in and commitment to the craft activity varied considerably,
and these enterprises were combined with other, usually agricultural activities. In Huexotla, the small quantities and dispersed nature of craft debris
strongly suggest widespread small-scale domestic crafting (Brumfiel 1987: 107).
Similar conclusions hold for households excavated in Morelos (Smith 2003c)
and Otompan (Otis Charlton et al. 1993; Otis Charlton 1994; Nichols 1994),
although some crafts in Otompan appear to have been pursued with more
exuberance than others and have earned designations as household workshops
(Otis Charlton et al. 1993).7 Even luxury crafts appear to have been undertaken in domestic contexts; portions of large “orders,” such as ornate feathered
pieces, may have been distributed to a number of artisans for them to fashion in their homes, delivering their piecework to some centralized, finishing
locale.8 The resettling of some such households to palatial venues suggests a

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
super-domestic control over these politically attached artisans, although we are
currently unsure of the nature of these palace–workshop–artisan relationships
in the absence of archaeologically identified palatial workshops. It is possible
that the artisan’s full household was involved in any relocation, and the craft
continued as a domestic undertaking within or near a palace (Sahagún 1950–
1982: book 9, 91; Berdan et al. 2009; see Case 4.2). But it is also possible that
manufacturing in these high-level settings was carried on at an industry-type
workshop. The jury is still out on this important distinction.
Domestic craft production was neither uniform nor simplistic. Some situational considerations included seasonality, response to market demands, life
cycle of the family, domestic labor availability, access to raw materials, extent
and scheduling of tribute demands, and the ability (or perceived need) to
engage in multicrafting (as described later). Some of these complexities can
be seen in the production of textiles. One common denominator of household crafting throughout the Aztec realm was cotton cloth production.9 This
involved the spinning, weaving, and sometimes embellishing of cotton into
items of clothing or other objects ranging from tortilla covers to corpse wrappings. Roughly half of the population (all women, nobles and commoners)
was trained in spinning and weaving, and these individuals produced large
quantities of cloth for their own household use, for trade in the marketplaces,
and for tribute payments. All of this was accomplished in household contexts,
although there is an exception, and the picture is a bit more complex than it
seems. In commoner households an adult woman typically would divide her
working time between cooking, child care, marketing, tending the household
garden, and cloth production; the presence of more than one adult woman in
a household was an advantage, and many commoner Aztec households were
joint rather than nuclear (see Chapter 6). Some women in noble polygynous
households would have been engaged in spinning and weaving as their primary activity. One would expect that there was a large potential difference
in textile output between noble and commoner households. In an important
exception to this model of household production, girls attached to the temple
of Huitzilopochtli in Tenochtitlan spent at least some of their time making
cloth for ceremonial use (Durán 1971: 84). While unrecorded, similar duties
may have been assigned to priestesses and attendants in other temples.

intensity
Intensity refers to the extent to which a craft was pursued on a part-time or
full-time basis. Determining the intensity of craft production, especially of
utilitarian objects, is singularly difficult. Ethnohistoric sources rarely offer such
details, although archaeological investigations and ethnographic parallels can
be more revealing.
Brumfiel (1987: 102, 116) argues for a distinction between urban and rural
craft production, suggesting the concentration of full-time luxury (and to a

99

100

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure C4.2. Coyote-designed shield crafted of feathers and gold. (Photograph by
Robert Berdan. Courtesy Museum für Völkerkunde,Vienna.)

Case 4.2 Making a Fancy Feather Object
In Aztec Mexico, objects fashioned from fine feathers were essentially ornamental: they adorned gods, decorated buildings, bedecked royalty and other nobles,
and embellished ceremonial processions and other pageants. Their shimmering,
flowing presence added visual glamour and magnificence to high-level images,
personages, and events. They were the prerogative of the nobility, who lavishly
adorned themselves with brilliant plumes, wagered feathered cloaks and precious feathers in games of chance and skill, impressed enemy and allied nobles
with gifts of exquisite feathered articles and received marvelous feathered pieces
in turn, and went into battle wearing symbolically laden feathered costumes.

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
Actual articles fashioned of feathers included textiles (especially cloaks and
decorative hangings), warriors’ costumes, headdresses, back devices, shields, banners, fans, and other miscellaneous adornments. Feathers used in these creations
ranged from ordinary feathers of ducks, turkeys, crows, and local waterbirds
to exotic feathers from macaws, parrots, lovely cotingas, red spoonbills, hummingbirds, and especially the esteemed quetzal. The acquisition of the expensive and often nonlocal feathers required considerable up-front investments by
the independent artisans; this was facilitated by access to markets and by the
artisans’ close economic relations with their neighbors, the long-distance merchants, or pochteca. Featherworkers attached to palaces had access to materials
acquired by their royal or noble patron.
Beyond the precious feathers themselves, the featherwork workshop used
materials and tools obtained largely from outside sources. When acquired,
some of these were already manufactured or partially processed: these included
orchid powder (for glue), bowls, baskets, paper, cutting blades, leather, maguey
thread, and probably cotton textiles and cotton thread. Others were obtained
as raw materials and used or transformed by the featherworkers, including
maguey leaves (as a working surface), cotton, colors for dyes, bone blades,
wood, and the common and precious feathers themselves. Most of these materials were available in the markets; others, such as maguey leaves and bone
blades, were widely available and could have been obtained informally. In
general, the toolkit was quite basic, given the sophisticated objects that were
produced from it.* With the exception of the precious feathers, the technology required little capital investment. It could be argued that the largest
investment in this craft would have been in the realm of technical knowledge,
handed down from parent to child.
Objects were manufactured from feathers in three ways: (1) feathers were
tied together into long, flowing devices such as headdresses and fans, (2)
feathers were glued to solid surfaces to produce intricate mosaics such
as shields, and (3) feathers were spun and woven into textiles. To make
a feathered mosaic shield, for instance, a scribe was called upon to draw
the design, which would serve as the pattern for the feathered piece. The
featherworkers then went to considerable effort to meticulously prepare a
backing of painted designs, glue-reinforced carded cotton, and paper supports, topped with layers of ordinary and exotic feathers. The design was
outlined in thinly trimmed feathers (to the naked eye these look like paint,
but under the microscope they are clearly feathers). Then layers of feathers
were applied. The first layer consisted of “glue-hardened feathers” (ordinary
feathers entirely dipped in glue). The colors of these feathers were chosen
(or created by dyes) to match the upper layers of expensive exotic feathers, which covered the surface with a shimmering presence. The design
components were constructed separately and ultimately assembled into the
finished object by the master artisan (e.g., in Figure C4.2, the coyote’s head
and body consist of several pieces outlined in gold; on this artifact, the gold
strips are folded under and the underside sewn onto the backing). All along
the way, the feathers were repeatedly laid out in trial designs, matched,

101

102

Aztec Society and Culture
trimmed, arranged, rearranged, and at last attached to finalize the exquisite
creation.
This work undoubtedly took place out of doors, most likely on an attached
patio (unfortunately, we have not yet discovered such a workplace archaeologically, nor are there any ethnographically analogous featherwork settings). It
would have been important to the artisans to arrange their colorful creations in
outdoor lighting, where they would most commonly be displayed. It is unlikely
that the enterprise would have succeeded within the confines of the dark,
windowless houses. However, the featherworkers would be able to work only
on days and at times without rain or wind, conditions that would damage or
disperse the valuable feathers.
All of the featherworking techniques required intensive training, and the
detailed documentation for Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco indicates that parents
taught these skills to their children.Training and manufacturing both appear to
have been household-based, the households grouped within specified neighborhoods, or calpulli.These close physical arrangements facilitated the monitoring of high standards of workmanship and behavior.
Within each featherworking household there was a well-defined division of labor and hierarchy of skills. If a household contained a master artisan, that individual was responsible for overseeing the stages of production
and finalizing the object. In the production of a mosaic object, a shield for
example, girls and probably women were responsible for dyeing feathers,
and children (apparently boys) made the adhesives. More experienced artisans created the design and applied the feathers in layers. The manufacturing of a feathered mosaic object entailed several stages of production, all of
them requiring considerable cooperation. Some processes were sequenced
(as with the layering of expensive feathers atop ordinary ones), others were
ongoing (like the selection, trimming, and dyeing of feathers), and others
were on-call (such as the making of orchid adhesives, which tend to set up
quickly). Cooperation extended beyond the household, since scribes were
called upon to execute the initial design, and many objects were fashioned
of combinations of gold, precious stones, and feathers, requiring inter-craft
collaborations (Figure C4.2).
Success in a featherwork workshop relied on systematic and efficient coordination of several separate tasks. Since some of these tasks were sequential in
nature, others ongoing, and still others on-call, the organization of the workshop
required well-established social relations and expectations among the different
specialized workers. In addition to proficiency in the sphere of social relations,
it was paramount that all of the workers shared a common attitude toward their
enterprise: the documents attest to extraordinary attention to detail and meticulousness, and the extant feathered objects verify that the workers held to those
virtues. Efficiency, predictability, diligence, and painstaking workmanship were
the watchwords of this industry.
* Perhaps we shouldn’t be terribly surprised by this. Today, some exquisite crystal
manufactured in Waterford, Ireland, is fashioned using wooden and sometimes jerryrigged tools.

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
lesser extent utilitarian) specialization in urban settings and part-time utilitarian crafting in rural communities. Parsons et al. (1982: 384) and Sanders et al.
(1979: 180–181) also see luxury crafting as an urban (specifically, TenochtitlanTlatelolco) phenomenon. Considerable investments in time, materials, and
unique training suggest that luxury crafts such as featherworking, fine lapidary work, and goldwork typically were produced by full-time artisans. They
were capable of supporting themselves from these specializations, since their
aristocratic consumers provided a constant and fairly predictable outlet for
their efforts. Indeed, in Late Aztec times, an expanding elite and growing
empire would have required a high level of production from skilled luxury
artisans in terms of both quantity and quality (Case 4.2; see Chapters 5 and 6).
Nonetheless, elite consumers did not reside only in Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco,
and some luxuries were produced in rural settings (Brumfiel 1987: 107). We
know that Xochimilco was a center for fine stonework, Texcoco was known
for its elaborate polychrome pottery, and city-states throughout the Aztec
imperial domain contained artisans fashioning brilliant featherwork, exquisite
gold objects, and fine stonework (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 80; Neff and
Hodge 2008: 217; Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. III).
It is usually assumed that many of the utilitarian objects used in both
noble and commoner households were manufactured part time by urban and
especially rural people. The many rural households, farming households for
instance, combined craft activities with other economic pursuits. Along gender lines, while the adult man or men in the household farmed or fished, the
women spun and wove cloth and taught their daughters to do the same.10 In
various households, men, women, and children would have combined their
energies to produce a wide range of goods such as pottery, mats, rope, baskets,
sandals, paper, painted gourds, and even adhesives.11 Today in the village of San
Pablito, Puebla, men and women cooperate in making native paper (amatl)
(Figure 4.6a); women also cook and care for children; men and boys farm; and
little girls and women make colorful embroideries for sale (Figure 4.6b).12
The extent to which craft activities contributed to any particular household
economy is difficult to ascertain, and the full-time/part-time distinction is a
broad one. In actual instances, there would have been a continuum of time
and resource commitments, varying between households and within any given
household as its subsistence strategies or political fortunes changed over time.
These internal changes might have been long term, but there also surely were
short-term adjustments responding to matters such as seasonal activities and
needs, labor availability, and access to raw materials.
At one end of this continuum we find the small amounts and dispersed
nature of craft debris at Huexotla, suggesting limited household involvement
in crafting (Brumfiel 1987: 107). Obsidian remains at Teotihuacan suggest a
similar level of artisan involvement: although Spence describes obsidian-working sites as “workshops,” he clarifies that “obsidian working occupied only a

103

104

Aztec Society and Culture
fraction of the time of the workshop site occupants” (1985: 92). Farther along
the continuum, concentrated craft remains at Otompan suggest more intensified craft activities in stonework, figurine and other ceramic objects, and
maguey fiber products. These were intensive enough to be termed workshops,
but their activities still probably did not engage the householders full time
(Nichols 1994; Otis Charlton 1994). At the farthest point of the continuum
were the luxury artisans, as discussed earlier.
Kenneth Hirth (2009a) offers cogent and well-supported arguments for the
likelihood of part-time crafting in agricultural households. But rather than
viewing craft production as either part time or full time, he proposes the useful
concept of intermittent crafting, in which a household diversifies its resource
strategies by engaging in periodic craft production. Intermittent crafting takes
into account the role of craft activities in an agricultural household’s economy
as well as the notion that that role provided flexibility and income to the
household in the face of such variables as seasonal agricultural demands, labor
availability, and the rhythm of ceremonies and tribute schedules requiring large
quantities of specific material goods. Intermittent crafting also could take up
the slack for less predictable and potentially disastrous events such as drought,
famine, and warfare. The concept of intermittent crafting as applied to Aztec
rural households is particularly attractive and relevant: it allows us to view crafting, in varying degrees of intensity at any point in a household’s history, as a
dynamic and risk-reducing component of diversified household economies.13
Along the same lines, Hirth (2009a: 21) offers the concept of multicrafting, or
“the practice of multiple crafts within the same household.” When mobilized,
multiple craft activities provided a household with diversified production output that was responsive to different consumer cycles, spreading its risks broadly
and increasing its subsistence security.14
CONCENTRATION

Concentration refers to the physical location of production facilities and
activities. The distribution of crafting was not random, and patterns can be
seen along ecological, ethnic, city-state, and calpolli lines. The most basic spatial
associations were between crafting and the natural availability of raw materials. For instance, obsidian working proliferated at Teotihuacan and Otompan,
both geographically close to two primary obsidian sources at Otompan and
Pachuca. The working of maguey fiber and the production of pulque from
maguey were concentrated in highland areas where maguey grew in abundance. And evidence for papermaking has been found in Morelos just to the
south of the Basin of Mexico, an area where the amaquahuitl, or “paper tree,”
abounds (Smith 2003c: 253). The production of ceramics with specific clay
compositions was localized in city-states near those clay sources (Minc 2009).
Such associations, however, were far from perfect. An enormous amount of
cotton cloth production took place in the highlands, where cotton could not

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

105

a

b

Figure 4.6. (a) Softening the bark for
making amate (amatl) paper today in San
Pablito, Mexico. (Photograph by Frances
Berdan.) (b) A girl embroidering in San
Pablito. (Photograph by Frances Berdan.)

106

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 4.7. A cloak designed Ocuilteca style. (From
Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 34r.)

grow. Similarly, artistry using shimmering exotic feathers was highly developed
in the central highlands, although these feathers derived from distant tropical
settings. The same can be said for goldwork and fine stonework, although the
most noted goldsmiths were the Mixtecs from the southern highlands, living in relatively close proximity to the sources of gold. Overall, the ability to
produce crafts from nonlocal raw materials was well developed and relied on
far-ranging trade networks and reliable regional markets.
Ethnicity also appears to have been a factor in the distribution of craft specializations. For instance, rod-shaped lip plugs were markers of Otomí ethnic
identity, and numerous such obsidian objects, in finished and partially finished
form, have been found archaeologically at Xaltocan, an important Otomí center (Brumfiel et al. 1994). Some material objects produced widely, such as
ceramics and textiles, had specific cultural imprints and came to be known by
those ethnic associations. This was especially true where a high degree of decoration or elaboration was involved, as in the exquisite Cholula polychrome
pottery (on which Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin dined), in textiles woven or
painted with designs carrying the ethnic names of their producers (such as
Ocuilteca cloaks) (Figure 4.7), or in ornate feathered warrior costumes likewise ethnically named (such as Cuextecatl or Huaxtec costumes) (Figure 4.8).
Yet ethnic boundaries were not so impermeable as to preclude others from
manufacturing these objects as well. For instance, several widely distributed
Aztec imperial provinces paid Huaxtec-style warrior costumes in tribute; none
of these was in the Huaxtec region.
More frequent and clear-cut associations can be made between primary
political units (city-states) and particular crafts; indeed, some city-states
became renowned for their extraordinary craftsmanship. In the Basin of
Mexico, Xochimilco as a hotbed of luxury lapidary work and Texcoco as a
center for fine polychrome pottery have already been mentioned. To these

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

Figure 4.8. A Cuextecatl (Huaxteca-style) warrior costume.
(From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 34r.)

we can add Cuauhtitlan, noted for its excellent red jars; Azcapotzalco, famous
for its silverwork; and Coyoacan, noted for its masons (Bierhorst 1992: 70;
Gibson 1964: 350–351). Other Basin city-states were centers for mat making,
basket weaving, woodworking, maguey processing, stonework, and ceramics.15
At a more specific level, some neighborhood divisions (calpolli) within citystates were also renowned for their specializations. For instance, Amantlan
in Tlatelolco was so famous as a center for featherworking that featherworkers generally came to be known as amanteca (people of Amantlan), and
Xochimilco, in addition to its lapidary fame, contained calpolli specializing in
carpentry, sculpting, and ceramics (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9; Gibson 1964:
351). While information on these specializations derives from colonial documents, I agree with Gibson (1964: 350) that “the colonial period modified but
never essentially altered this aboriginal principle of community and barrio
specialization.”
Some of these community specializations may represent pre-Aztec practices. However, in Aztec times some artisans moved to different city-states,
where they were established in separate and distinct calpolli. A good example
is Texcoco, where artisans of more than thirty crafts (including goldwork, silverwork, painting, fine stonework, and featherwork) each resided in their own
district within that city, brought there by the ruler from distant parts (Alva
Ixtlilxochitl 1965: vol. 1, 326–326; vol. 2, 187; Torquemada 1969: vol. 1, 147).
The concentration of artisans in separate calpolli was also the arrangement
in Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco (Monzón 1949; López Austin 1973; Sahagún
1950–1982: book 9).16 Other artisans were clustered near palaces, suggesting
entailed economic attachments (as described later).

107

108

Aztec Society and Culture
An additional venue for craft production was the marketplace itself. As in
today’s marketplaces, it was not uncommon for artisans to work on their wares
while they displayed and sold them on market day. This is particularly well
documented for those who made stone tools: the Anonymous Conqueror
(1963: 179) observed that “in another part [of the Tlatelolco market] they cut
the stones for knives and swords, which is something very interesting to see,
and they also make swords and shields.”17 The fashioning of stone implements
in the marketplaces, perhaps on order, is also suggested by another observant
conquistador, who includes among the Tlatelolco market vendors “the makers
of flint knives, and how they split them off the stone itself ” (Díaz del Castillo
1963: 233). Later in the sixteenth century, friar Bernardino de Sahagún (1950–
1982: book 10, 85) described details of obsidian working in the Tlatelolco
market with a degree of clarity suggesting that he probably observed the artisans at work there.18 Kenneth Hirth (2009b: 91) has found convincing archaeological evidence for obsidian blade manufacture in Epiclassic Xochicalco
market areas, suggesting that the artisan-sellers were independent specialists
engaging in a household-level craft. While Xochicalco predates the period of
Aztec hegemony, documentary statements suggest continuity of these marketplace activities through the Late Postclassic.19

organization and context
The spatial distribution of crafts also reflected, to some extent, their organization and sociopolitical context. In this regard, we speak of “attached”
and “independent” artisans. The former were situated in or near palaces,
suggesting elite economic, social, and/or political relationships. This particularly applied to some luxury artisans who enjoyed the patronage of
the local ruler. These artisans were assured access to raw materials as well
as a guaranteed consumer. For instance, the Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco featherworkers attached to the Tenochtitlan ruler’s palace enjoyed access to the
ruler’s aviary and tribute stores, and were specifically employed to produce
ornate featherwork for the ruler’s finery, for exquisite gifts for the ruler’s
diplomatic guests, and for the array of the god Huitzilopochtli (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 9, 91). It appears that these highly esteemed artisans (and
perhaps also lapidaries and goldworkers) were resettled in or near the palace,
yet it also seems that the household structure of production was maintained.
That is, it is likely that entire households were relocated, allowing for the
household’s division of labor to be maintained (see Case 4.2). Other artisans attached to the royal palace in Tenochtitlan included goldworkers and
silversmiths, coppersmiths, painters, “cutters of stones,” greenstone mosaic
workers, and woodcarvers, all of whom worked at or near the totocalli, or
“bird house” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 45; Díaz del Castillo 1963: 230).
Artisans continued to be attached to native nobles in the early colonial period. Don Juan de Guzmán, native governor of Coyoacan in the

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
mid–sixteenth century, enjoyed the perquisite that “all the artisans and craftsmen . . . be attached to the royal house to do what is needed” (Anderson et al.
1976: 150–151). Ten carpenters and ten stonemasons were also attached to
Don Juan, but we know little about them beyond that he was having a house
built, and “they are to do what is needed” (Anderson et al. 1976: 151). Prior to
the Spanish conquest, when Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin employed sculptors
to carve a statue of him, he paid them handsomely for their work.20 Perhaps
these were independent artisans, although the payment could as well represent compensation to attached artisans. While royal or elite sponsorship provided attached artisans with a predictable livelihood, it perhaps offered them
less opportunity for creativity than the independent luxury artisans working
beyond the reach of the palace and selling their finery in the markets.
Some of these independent artisans, producing both luxury and utilitarian
goods, were concentrated in specific neighborhoods, or calpolli. Those clustered in calpolli possessed a certain economic exclusiveness and social cohesion, much like craft guilds of medieval Europe. The documentary record
provides us with details on the inner workings of Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco
luxury “guilds,” and archaeological information from Otompan indicates
neighborhood concentrations of other crafts, such as maguey fiber processing and lapidary and figurine manufacture in that city-state (Otis Charlton
et al. 1993).
Highly valued by the nobility and set apart spatially, the luxury artisans
enjoyed certain privileges: they supervised their children’s education, administered their own internal ranking systems, arranged religious ceremonies dedicated to their patron deities, and negotiated special relations and perquisites
with their city-state rulerships. The featherworkers of Amantlan in Tlatelolco,
at least, had their own temple and elite school (calmecac).21 Featherworkers,
lapidaries, metalworkers, and professional merchants (pochteca) all enjoyed
the privilege of offering human sacrifices (slaves) in important public
ceremonies.
Independent artisans could not necessarily depend on the largess of the
state in obtaining raw materials for their crafts. They relied on merchants and
markets for access to raw materials and as outlets for their finished products.
The Tlatelolco featherworkers maintained especially close relations with their
equally exclusive neighbors, the entrepreneurial pochteca, who provided them
with the shimmering tropical feathers essential in their craft. While undocumented, it is likely that similarly close relations existed between luxury artisans
and merchants in other city-states.
Whether attached to elite palaces or living in exclusive neighborhoods, specialized artisans required enduring and predictable links to several other areas
of Aztec life: they gained status through participation in society-wide ceremonies, served royal and other noble palaces, dealt with long-distance merchants,
and were consistent fixtures in any major marketplace.

109

110

Aztec Society and Culture

The Production Process
Further insights into Aztec craft production can be gained from an examination of the complex and multifaceted process of specialized craft production itself, including its limitations, possibilities, and regional expressions. One
significant dimension along which the processes of production vary is the
luxury–utilitarian distinction. It is usually assumed that higher values attached
to a product relate directly to production activities that are spatially centralized
and politically controlled (through state subsidies or guild-like organizations),
that entail complicated production processes and extensive capital outlay, and
that demand more full-time commitment by the producers.22 Conversely,
lesser-valued products would tend to be more dispersed, to be less politically
controlled, to involve less complicated procedures and capital outlay, and to be
undertaken as a part-time activity.
I would add one more aspect to this list of fairly well-established propositions: that the greater value and prestige attached to an object, the more fragmented or “sequentially specialized” the production process. In other words,
a valued raw material was developed, altered, improved, and embellished in
successive stages by different specialists on its way to becoming a finished and
highly desirable commodity. This complex process itself, of course, in turn
would have heightened the value of an object (but was probably not the major
determinant of value, yielding to such factors as rarity of materials, intrinsic
qualities, and social and symbolic meanings). On the other hand, less highly
valued and more commonly used objects tended to be produced by more
collapsed, contained processes, involving fewer transfers from hand to hand
to reach their final, consumable form. A brief look at the contrasts between
maguey fiber and cotton cloth production will highlight these patterns.
The hearty maguey plant (Agave sp.) (Figure 4.9) provided sturdy fibers
for netting, cordage, sandals, and cloth destined for wear predominantly by
people in the society’s lower echelons. These fibers derived from both the
leaves and the “heart” of the plant, and ranged from very coarse to very fine.
The process of producing maguey fiber and maguey fiber cloth was generally
household-based and quite self-contained (Evans 1990; Otis Charlton et al.
1993; Charlton 1994: 236). Maguey leaves do not appear on market lists as
market items. Instead, it is documented that the preparer (“dresser”) of maguey
leaves was “an owner of maguey fiber,” who toasted and scraped the leaves to
yield the fiber (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 73). This same person was also
the marketplace vendor of maguey fiber capes. Archaeological investigations
at Otompan and Cihuatecpan (Otis Charlton et al. 1993; Evans 2005) have
revealed the co-occurrence of tools for different maguey-processing activities: stone scrapers for inducing the flow of sap (Parsons and Parsons 1990:
361) or for scraping soaked leaves, and large spindle whorls for spinning the
fibers. This suggests that people in individual households engaged in both the

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
production of syrup/pulque and the preparation of fibers. According to Otis
Charlton et al. (1993: 156), “The density and size of the clusters [of maguey
whorls], along with their associations with maguey fiber processing tools and
heavily used obsidian prismatic blades, support the presence of concentrated
workshop activities.” It is likely that the weaving of maguey fibers was also
part of this household-based process, but archaeological and documentary evidence for this is lacking. Rural dwellers outside of Otompan may have processed the fibers and passed them on to be spun by Otompan urbanites (Otis
Charlton et al. 1993: 156). If the prepared fibers were moved to other spinners
and weavers, this might have occurred through channels more informal than
marketplaces, or the fibers may have been present in the marketplaces and
not deemed worthy of mention. In any event, it does appear that maguey
fiber and cloth production was regionally contained within highland magueygrowing areas (see Blanton 1996) – large spindle whorls for maguey fiber
spinning rarely appear in lowland regions (e.g., Stark 1990: 275). At Otompan
and Cihuatecpan at least, maguey fiber production was spatially concentrated,
while cotton spinning was dispersed throughout the center (Otis Charlton
et al. 1993; Nichols 1994; Evans 2005).
These patterns resemble Sahagún’s (1950–1982: book 10, 74) description of the
marketplace sellers of maguey syrup: these individuals, who processed maguey
into this delectable liquid, were also owners of maguey plants. Ethnographic
research by Parsons and Parsons (1990: 297) indicates that present-day magueyprocessing activities are invariably located very close to the sources of the maguey
plants themselves. These researchers (Parsons and Parsons 1990: 297–298) logically suggest that this was due to the enormous amount of waste involved in
the processing: since this condition would have pertained in the Late Postclassic
as well, we may assume a similar localization of maguey-processing activities for
those times.This would also account for the lack of maguey leaves (as recorded)
in Aztec-period marketplaces; the effort involved in transporting them would
not have been commensurate with the rather modest economic returns.
In contrast, “the evidence for cotton fiber and cloth production suggests a
complex set of spatially separated sequences carried out across diverse regions”
(Berdan et al. 2003: 99). Cotton was a lowland crop, cultivated on coastal plains,
along river valleys, and in some low-elevation inland areas (such as in presentday Morelos state).Yet, unlike the manufacture of maguey fiber and cloth, cotton textile production spread across different ecological zones, being common
in highland as well as lowland locales.23 Raw cotton was transported to spinners and weavers by cotton field owners, by regional traders (tlanecuilo), and
by professional merchants (oztomeca) (Berdan 1988: 646). At Misantla, along the
Gulf coast, enterprising individuals manufactured quilted cotton armor and
sold it at battlefields (Relación de Misantla 1962: 17). Aside from this interesting
option, the most common venues for exchange were the numerous highland
and lowland marketplaces.24

111

112

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 4.9. Maguey (agave)
plant. (Photograph by
Frances Berdan.)

Cotton cloth was frequently embellished with spun rabbit fur, spun feathers, and dyed embroidery threads. Weavers had access to rabbit fur and the
feathers of birds such as ducks and turkeys through the Tlatelolco marketplace
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 77, 92) and undoubtedly other markets as well.
They could purchase these materials to personalize their own clothing, to
adorn an item for tribute payment, or for further sale. To embellish a woven
textile, therefore, the weaver depended on the efforts of these other specialists,
since the fashioning of these colorful additions involved specialized producers:
the rabbit fur vendor was a dyer of those furs, the seller of spun duck and turkey feathers also spun them, and the dyes themselves were produced and sold
separately from the spun threads (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 77, 92).
Woven cotton cloth, embellished or not, seemed to enter the economy in
more diverse ways than cloth woven from maguey fibers. While both maguey
cloth and cotton cloth were produced for personal use, tribute payments, and
market sales by the weavers, the cotton cloth also ended up in the hands of various professional merchants and traders who served as entrepreneurial middlemen. In general, the movement of highly valued cotton from raw material to
finished, consumable product involved a good many specialized producers,
transfers from hand to hand, and journeys across diverse ecological regions.25
The less prestigious maguey, in contrast, traveled from raw material to finished
good in a considerably more contained economic and geographic arena.
Whether locally constrained or regionally extensive, craft specializations
provided households with important economic supplements or, in some cases,
their entire livelihood. Nonetheless, some craft production was skimmed off
for obligatory tribute payments, a political arm of the economy that is discussed in Chapter 5.
In producing utilitarian crafts, artisans reached a wide range of consumers
up and down the social scale; in producing preciosities, luxury artisans targeted
the elite social, political, and religious world. To reach all of these consumers,

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
specialists depended on commercial exchange networks, especially central
Mexico’s energetic merchants and extensive web of markets.
COMMERCIAL EXCHANGE

Central Mexico during the Late Postclassic was highly commercialized –
more so than during any prior era in the region: commodities proliferated,
long-distance trade thrived, markets were lively, and currencies were widely
accepted (Berdan et al. 2003a). The commercialization of the economy was
widespread, as entrepreneurial trading networks extended to distant international trading centers, and everyday exchanges were relatively disengaged from
direct political control.
The extent of this commercialization, however, remains a persistent question. Land does not generally appear to have been a marketable commodity,26
and the bulk of labor (particularly agricultural labor) was likewise politically
entailed. Some artisans, especially those producing luxury goods, were directly
attached to noble houses, and their efforts most likely were not available in the
markets; however, independent luxury artisans also existed. Similarly, the labor
of porters appears to have been sometimes entailed by local rulers, sometimes
available for “pay” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 14; Hassig 1986). Some individuals such as barbers and porters reportedly offered their services (or labor)
in the marketplaces (Cortés 1928: 88–89). But aside from land and most primary labor, it was understood and expected that individual householders and
entrepreneurial merchants would balance their resources and seek livelihoods
and profits in the numerous bustling markets of the realm.

Travel and Transport
In the Aztec world, all travel and transport was by foot or canoe. On land, all
goods were carried on human backs with the aid of a tumpline and carrying
frame or basket. This restricted individual loads to approximately 50 pounds
(Díaz del Castillo 1963: 109, 131–132; Hassig 1986:135–136). Householders selling small personal surpluses would have carried their own goods to market,
while wealthy professional merchants would have engaged porters (tlamemeh) – perhaps large caravans of them – to transport their valuable wares great
distances. In the latter case, porters reportedly worked in relays, an individual
porter carrying his load “five leagues,” an ambiguous distance probably referring to a single day’s journey (Hassig 1986: 135–136). Both size of load and
distance traveled may have been somewhat flexible depending on time of year,
seasonal weather conditions, difficulty of terrain, and even perhaps political
obstacles. In any event, while some of the long-distance mercantile travel would
have paralleled modern road networks, many travelers embarked directly across
country. Mirroring this early pattern, today in mountainous areas of Mexico

113

114

Aztec Society and Culture
market vendors often trek on foot “straight” home over hill and valley, crossing
the zigzagging network of roads, and walking for up to three hours, each way,
to and from the market.
Where lakes, rivers, or coastlines afforded the opportunity, foot traffic was
augmented or replaced by canoe transport. Since a single man poling a canoe
could carry many times the weight of a foot porter, this was a more efficient
way of moving large quantities of goods – Hassig (2001: 768) estimates that
canoes could be forty times more efficient than porters. Lake Texcoco was
reportedly crowded with canoe traffic at the time of the Spanish arrival, the
canoes constantly moving people and goods to and fro between shorelines and
islands. Throughout Mesoamerica, on rivers, and along the Gulf and Pacific
coasts, merchants plied their wares in large dugout canoes capable of transporting several people with a wide array of merchandise (Edwards 1978; see
Case 8.2).
Aztec transport depended on human energy. It was also flexible and opportunistic: it responded to local conditions of terrain and weather, took advantage
of specialized natural features such as lakes and rivers, and adjusted to changing
political relations and boundaries. Within these parameters, Aztec people continued to use ancient pathways and roads, and invested in new roads and causeways to enhance their traveling options and efficiency. While most transport
(especially foot transport) continued to be carried out within relatively contained city-state perimeters with their local markets, the Late Postclassic also
saw the integration of broad regions by energetic, wide-ranging merchants.

Markets, Marketplaces, and Market Systems
Marketing activity in ancient (and modern) states has more than one dimension. Markets are “institutions predicated on the principles of market exchange
of alienable commodities” (Garraty 2010: 6). Forces of supply and demand
are engaged, a critical mass of buyers and sellers is available, and at least some
commodities or properties are available as transferable property. In the context of the Aztec Empire, markets were embedded in marketplaces, the actual
physical venues where regular and predictable market exchanges took place.
Beyond such individual locales, market systems were formed by “a regional
network of interconnected marketplaces” (Garraty 2010: 10) that actually
expanded beyond the regional level to interregional and even extra-imperial
scales. All of these – markets, marketplaces, and market systems – were present and vital in the dynamics of the Aztec world. Certain aspects of markets
(such as alienable property and large numbers of vendors and consumers) can
be seen in the documentary record. The extent to which the forces of supply
and demand operated in the markets is less securely documented and derives
primarily from inference. Controversies still simmer over the extent to which
market values were established by supply and demand or by the intervention

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
of political forces (see Blanton 1996). Marketplaces are unequivocally documented in the ethnohistoric records and inferred from archaeological studies
(e.g., Hirth 1998; Garraty 2009, 2010; Smith 2010); likewise with market systems (see Blanton 1996; Garraty 2010; Smith and Berdan 2003b).27
During Aztec times, marketplaces (tianquiztli) enlivened every major city
and town in central Mexico. Some met daily, others periodically. Some displayed a wide array of commodities; others were more limited or specialized.
Some attracted long-distance merchants with exotic wares; others catered to
more local vendors. Whatever the specifics, marketplaces served many of the
daily and exceptional needs of every individual in the imperial world. Beyond
“daily life,” the numerous marketplaces of the realm served as indispensable
venues in economically integrating the wide-ranging world system of Late
Postclassic Mesoamerica (Smith and Berdan 2003b; see Chapter 8).

types and scales of marketplaces
In 1615 Juan de Torquemada felt he could “reduce all [the markets] to those of
the city of Mexico [Tenochtitlan]; because you will see that through these it
is possible to understand the markets of all the other parts of the land” (1969:
vol. II, 555).28 While Torquemada was writing nearly a century after the Spanish
conquest, the indigenous market system in Central Mexico had changed little since Aztec times (see Chapter 8). Since this colonial observer had traveled
beyond Mexico City and observed other marketplaces firsthand, he most likely
was referring to general marketplace features such as meeting schedules, the
range of available market goods, and the orderly spatial arrangements of vendors
and their commodities.Yet if we were to look more closely, we would see significant variations among these marketplaces, notably the singular metropolitan
marketplace, urban specialized marketplaces, and provincial and extra-Empire
marketplaces (including marketplaces straddling volatile borderlands).These different types of marketplaces played variable roles in the dynamics of the Aztec
Empire and, more broadly, in integrating the Mesoamerican world system.
Metropolitan Marketplace
Our most detailed information on Aztec marketplaces derives from the extraordinary market at Tlatelolco, Tenochtitlan’s sister-city. According to Spanish
eyewitnesses and colonial accounts, virtually every raw material and manufactured object was offered for sale at this lively and noisy gathering (Cortés
1928: 87–89; Díaz del Castillo 1963: 232–233; Anonymous Conqueror 1963:
178–179; Sahagún 1950–1982: books 8 and 10). The range of available goods
was so impressive that the conquistador Díaz del Castillo despaired of describing
it all, concluding his account with, “If I describe everything in detail I shall
never be done” (1963: 233). On the same tour of the pre-conquest Tlatelolco
market, Hernán Cortés had a similar reaction to this market’s offerings: “There
is nothing to be found in all the land which is not sold in these markets, for

115

116

Aztec Society and Culture
over and above what I have mentioned there are so many and such various
other things that on account of their very number and the fact that I do not
know their names, I cannot now detail them” (1928: 89).
Goods ranged from everyday foodstuffs such as maize and beans, to household objects such as pots and baskets, to nobles’ fancy adornments made of
gold, precious stones, and shimmering feathers. Commodities ranged from
the elegant to the mundane, from the exceptional to the everyday. Some,
such as feathers and pigments, were sold as raw materials, while others, such
as decorated textiles and fine stone necklaces, were expertly fashioned and
meticulously adorned. A tempting menu of fast food was on offer to hungry
marketers.
This exceptional marketplace attracted tropical luxuries from distant lands
as well as local lake products. The marketplace, indeed, drew on resources and
manufactures from the entire Empire and even beyond: exotic feathers, cotton, and cacao came from lowland regions, chiles arrived from the southern
Empire (present-day Oaxaca) and the Gulf coast, and fine stones such as jadeite
derived from well south of the Empire’s military control. Products and goods
from both local and distant areas provided the consumer with considerable
choice: in this market were offered at least fifteen varieties of maize, twentyseven types of chiles, five distinct grades of cotton, and ten regional varieties
of decorated gourd bowls (Berdan 1985: 344). This marketplace was especially
effective in supporting urban craft specialists. For instance, artisans of fine stone
or feather mosaics found enthusiastic elite consumers for their finery; at the
same time other vendors used the marketplace to supply these very artisans
with essential raw materials such as stones, feathers, glues, resins, dyes, cotton,
and woods.The wide range of goods was made available by wealthy merchants
with their exotic wares, by regional merchants, by local specialists, by nearby
farmers with small seasonal surpluses, by collectors of aquatic resources – in
short, by anyone with mercantile goals, available surpluses, or just something a
little extra to sell.
As a metropolitan marketplace, the Tlatelolco market was clearly in a class by
itself. Reportedly as many as 20,000–25,000 persons attended this venue daily,
with an estimated 40,000–50,000 participating every fifth day (Anonymous
Conqueror 1963: 178–179). Its very scale and diversity were extraordinary: it
served an outlandishly large and diverse population, it catered to a variety of ethnic groups, it served as a commercial outlet for urban specialists, and it provided
specialized goods needed during the predictable ceremonial cycle. Its commercial range was also atypical, as it benefited from a vast amount of convenient
lake traffic; the relative ease and efficiency of canoe over foot transport allowed
large-scale transfer of goods to and from lakeshores and islands. Additionally, the
network of causeways served the needs of marketers traveling on foot.The urban
concentration of a relatively large number of elite consumers, hungry for symbols of their status, attracted professional merchants with their exotic wares.

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
It should come as no surprise that neighboring Tenochtitlan rulers took a
special interest in this vigorous marketplace and desired to control it and its
attendant wealth. Its conquest by Axayacatl in 1473 was surely undertaken, at
least in part, to secure that control (Garduña 1997: 126).Wealthy and politically
influential pochteca resided near this marketplace, and this conquest also wove
these long-distance merchants more tightly into the web of Tenochtitlan’s
political service (as described later).

Urban Specialized Marketplaces in the Basin of Mexico
Before elaborating on the great Tlatelolco marketplace, Hernán Cortés (1928:
87) mentions that “the city [Tenochtitlan] has many open squares in which
markets are continuously held and the general business of buying and selling
proceeds.” The Anonymous Conqueror (1963: 179) states, “In addition to this
great square there are others, and other markets throughout the city where
foodstuffs are sold.” The marketplaces other than the food venues may have
sold a diversity of goods, but we have no specific information on what these
were (Anonymous Conqueror 1963: 178).The holding of food markets at various locations throughout the densely populated Tenochtitlan (spread out over
some 12 square kilometers) was certainly practical.29 The Basin’s “second city,”
Texcoco, also had multiple marketplaces, the largest held every fifth day and
other, more ordinary ones held daily (and probably stocked with foods and
utilitarian wares).
The numerous marketplaces in these and other cities throughout the Basin
of Mexico displayed a wide range of foodstuffs, utilitarian wares, local specialties, and exotic products and manufactures. Some of these urban marketplaces
became well known for specific commodities:Texcoco was renowned for cloth,
ceramics, and fine gourds; Otompan and Tepepulco for turkeys; Azcapotzalco
for slaves; and Acolman for dogs. In this last case, Diego Durán relates from
personal experience that Acolman was unquestionably the place to go to buy
and sell dogs in both his (colonial) and pre-colonial times:
One day I went to observe the market day there, just to be an eyewitness
and discover the truth. I found more than four hundred large and small
dogs....When a Spaniard who was totally familiar with that region saw [my
amazement], he asked, “Why are you astonished? I have never seen such a
meager sale of dogs as today! There was a tremendous shortage of them!”
(Durán 1971: 2785)

This same friar suggests that political policy had a hand in the establishment
of these specialized marketplaces and that “some markets, therefore, became
famous and popular for these reasons.” As an example he cites the slave markets at Azcapotzalco and Itzocan, stating that all those who were selling slaves
“must go there and to no other place to sell” (Durán 1971: 277–278).30 He also
includes the Acolman dog market among those established by political edict
(Durán 1971: 278). Despite Durán’s claims, it appears that specialization did not

117

118

Aztec Society and Culture
mean monopoly. Reportedly slaves could be sold in any market venue, and, at
the very least, our detailed listings for the Tlatelolco marketplace include all of
the goods sold in the surrounding specialized marketplaces. Specialization here
seems to refer to a certain renown rather than an exclusive right.
As venues offering a wide range of goods alongside their “famous” ones, these
marketplaces would have provisioned the full range of local households (noble
to commoner) and generally attracted the same types of buyers and sellers as the
Tlatelolco market. These ranged from small-scale food producers to specialized
artisans and wealthy traveling merchants.The presence of a featured commodity
also drew an inordinate number of individuals with special goals. For instance,
the slave markets required high-end merchants as vendors as well as wealthy
persons as consumers; regional and long-distance merchants were attracted to
the Texcoco marketplace, where they knew they would find consumers expecting their fine gourds brought from afar. Additionally, specialized marketplaces
may have experienced uneven demand. For instance, dogs, turkeys, and slaves
were often associated with feasting and religious ceremonies, and their specialized markets probably geared up for these scheduled and predictable events.
Other urban marketplaces around the Basin of Mexico enjoyed less spectacular
reputations, but nonetheless were “the place to go” for particular purchases. For
instance, the Coyoacan marketplace offered a nice range of wood products, and
the Cuauhtitlan marketplace presented the knowledgeable consumer with an
excellent selection of pottery (Anderson et al. 1976; Gibson 1964: 358).
Many of these marketplaces operated on a periodic rather than daily basis,
convening every fifth or every twentieth day. The most common period
recorded in the early colonial documents is weekly (see Figure 4.10a), which is
translated into every fifth day in the pre-Columbian calendar.31 These schedules would have required some planning by vendors seeking the most suitable
and profitable marketplaces and by consumers seeking specialized products.

Market Integration in the Basin of Mexico
Were these Basin of Mexico marketplaces integrated into a broader market
system? Michael Smith (1979) suggests a basin-wide market exchange system
focused on the Tlatelolco marketplace. In this conceptualization, the market
system was based on a commercial principle: goods traveled freely from smaller
marketplaces to the great Tlatelolco market magnet and also freely from any
marketplace to any marketplace in the region. Specialized marketplaces drew
consumers from throughout the broader region. However, Leah Minc (2009)
suggests that, at least in terms of pottery, marketplaces around the basin operated
in fairly exclusive spheres. That is, pottery produced in one city-state domain
only occasionally moved beyond that sphere to enter other, even nearby marketplaces. There were some variations in this pattern: fancy vessels were traded
more widely than simpler ones, suggesting that commoners relied mostly on
local production, while nobles drew on more extensive zones to supply their

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

119

a

Figure 4.10. (a) Map of documented sixteenthcentury weekly markets in the Basin of Mexico.
(Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.) (b) A twentiethcentury Nahua woman selling her produce in a
Mexican marketplace. (Photograph by Frances
Berdan.)

b

120

Aztec Society and Culture
more expensive and exotic needs. Minc’s (2009: 349–350) suggestion of definable market spheres applies to ceramics and, to some extent, to spindle whorls.
Pottery is heavy, bulky, and breakable, and for these reasons alone it may have
been confined to a more restricted marketing zone than many other commodities, which may have traveled about the region more widely and more
freely. The question remains as to how applicable these spheres were to other
types of portable goods.
The profusion of Basin of Mexico marketplaces, and notably the Tenochtitlan
food markets, was supported by highly concentrated urban populations.
Specialized offerings in certain of these marketplaces reflected the need for
predictable (and sometimes periodic) supplies of specific elite consumables
such as slaves, dogs, and turkeys. Other locally available goods, such as foodstuffs,
wood, mats, and pottery, drew on local production (Figure 4.10b). Regionally,
the mammoth Tlatelolco marketplace was encircled by a large number of these
smaller marketplaces. In addition to supplying their local residents, it is likely
that these marketplaces served as down-the-line steps in moving goods from
more distant regions into the full range of urban marketplaces. This was the
documented case with turkeys, which were concentrated at Otompan and
Tepeapulco and were transported from there to the Tlatelolco marketplace
(Torquemada 1969: vol. II, 559). The periodicity of marketplaces aided in these
movements; for instance, goods left over from the colonial Friday market in
Chalco Atenco were sold the next day in Mexico City’s plaza, perhaps a reflection of early practices (Gibson 1964: 358).

Provincial and Extra-Empire Marketplaces
Nonspecialized marketplaces proliferated within and beyond the Basin of
Mexico. City-states throughout central Mexico boasted their own marketplaces, small or large, daily or periodic, serving local clientele or attracting
more distant participants. Some of these locales played significant roles in the
overall imperial economy.Their importance depended on a number of factors:
local availability of raw materials and/or a notable local manufacture based on
those materials; location along active commercial routes; imposition of tributes
requiring that goods be supplied through markets; and direct political intervention in market activities.
Markets throughout and beyond the Empire served local supply functions. A
profusion of marketplaces provided individual householders with fundamental
needs, such as staple foods, pottery, and basic tools. Many of these marketplaces
would also have benefited from (and served as distribution points for) some
local resource such as clay suitable for pottery making, reeds for basket making,
lime for construction, or obsidian for tools. What might be the range of such a
basic-needs marketplace? For the Postclassic Basin of Mexico, Blanton (1996:
59) derives a market service radius of 4–8 kilometers, and Minc (2006: 99) suggests a radius of 8–12 kilometers for ceramics in the Basin.An archaeological study

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
in the Lower Blanco region of the Gulf coast by Garraty (2009: 168) suggests a
service radius of about 9 kilometers for a Middle Postclassic local market.32 The
service areas for bulk luxuries (such as cotton, salt, and cacao) and more exotic
goods have not been determined, but their range was most likely much greater.
Sixteenth-century colonial documentation suggests that individuals were willing
to travel 38–58 kilometers to markets to obtain goods such as obsidian, cotton,
and salt in locales where they were not naturally available (Berdan 1985: 350).
Aside from making these special products available, the basic economic function
of these local markets was the provisioning of individual households, granting
access to needed goods on a daily, seasonal, or situational basis while at the same
time furnishing outlets for their small surpluses (from, e.g., kitchen gardens and
household craft production). Political functions were also served, as local elites
strove to sponsor renowned markets to enhance their social prestige and bolster
their political influence (Hirth 2010). An affluent market reflected the noble’s
ability to attract and control resources, qualities that made him appealing as a
potential political ally.
Markets favorably located along busy commercial routes gained fame and
business, as well as the attention of ambitious city-state and imperial rulers.
Among these were markets situated astride the important inland–Gulf coast
corridors. On one such route merchants targeted markets in Tulancinco,
Tzicoac, and Tochpan that convened every twenty days (see Figure 4.12).
Tulancinco was located at the eastern edge of the highland plateaus, and the
Gulf coast marketplaces of Tochpan and Tzicoac were both situated on the
Tochpan River, part of a major and convenient highland–Gulf coast artery.
These markets attracted merchants from far and wide carrying valuable and
exotic goods (Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 310; Alva Ixtlilxochitl 1965: vol. I,
283). It is no surprise that these city-states were on the Aztec conquest agenda.
Similarly, Huexotla, just to the north of Tochpan and Tzicoac, entered the
Empire as a “client state” (see Chapter 5), probably of interest to the Empire
for its prime location along north–south/east–west trade routes. Its market was
reportedly well known for salt and cotton, both of which were transported
from some distance (Berdan et al. 1996: app. 4). In some cases the Aztecs promoted favorably located marketplaces, recognizing, for example, that Tepeacac
on the eastern plateau was “situated in a place through which many pass”
(Durán 1994: 258).33 Some of these also straddled ecological boundaries displaying not only “economic discontinuities” (Hirth 1978) but also cultural and
linguistic distinctions (Berdan 1985). As “break of bulk” and “gateway communities,” their marketplaces provided regional as well as local services.
Some markets gained or maintained business as a result of imperial tribute
assessments. Marketing and marketplaces predated Aztec hegemony; ethnohistoric documentation and archaeological research indicate the presence of markets in Mesoamerica from at least the Classic period (see Blanton 1983, 1996;
Hirth 1998, 2010; Garraty 2009; Smith 2010; Stark and Ossa 2010). Conquering

121

122

Aztec Society and Culture
Aztec rulers capitalized on these established trade and marketing networks
to acquire goods originating from other conquered regions and even from
beyond their zone of control. For instance, raw cotton and tropical feathers
were produced or natively available only in lowland regions, yet woven cotton textiles and feathered warrior attire were paid in tribute by nearly every
highland province conquered by the Aztecs. For the Aztecs, such tribute assessments assumed the preexistence and predictable availability of these lowland
materials in highland regions. Trade of some kind was involved; admittedly,
with a dearth of specific data, we assume existing marketplaces as the most
likely venues for exchange. Other examples include the greenstone and turquoise paid by Tochpan province, amber delivered by Xoconochco, and quetzal feathers demanded of Tlaxiaco and Coayxtlahuacan provinces (Berdan and
Anawalt 1992; Ball and Brockington 1978: 113). In some cases, great distances
were involved: reportedly the people of Icpatepeque trekked more than 144
kilometers to acquire gold dust, green feathers, and greenstones for their imperial tribute to Motecuhzoma (PNE 1905–1906: vol. IV, 161–162). In all of these
instances, these materials did not originate in the provinces paying them in
tribute, yet they must have been sufficiently prevalent in those provinces to
capture the attention of the conquerors.
Imperial intervention stimulated select markets within the Empire, as
already noted for some specialized Basin of Mexico marketplaces. Beyond
the Basin, a good example of imperial meddling involves the marketplace
at Tepeacac, near the enemy Tlaxcallan border. Following its conquest,
Tepeacac was required to hold a market where luxury goods such as gold,
precious stones, fine feathers, rich clothing, cacao, and jaguar pelts were to
be available (Durán 1994: 159). This edict offered a convenience to merchants traveling to “foreign” lands as well as to merchants restricted to trafficking within the confines of the Empire (as described later). Similarly, the
imperially designated slave market at Itzocan was situated along the frequently traveled commercial artery from the Basin of Mexico to the trading
center of Tochtepec, an active pochteca outpost. This arrangement favored
the wealthy professional merchants dealing in slaves. While the conquering
Aztecs took advantage of existing exchange networks and overlaid their
tribute system on them, they also molded some of those networks to serve
their own imperial needs.

marketplace rules
Marketplace activities were governed, formally and informally, by specific rules.
Large marketplaces, most notably the one at Tlatelolco, appear to have been
subject to more stringent, overt regulations than smaller venues. At Tlatelolco,
officials were appointed by the ruler to ensure “that no one might deceive
another, and how [articles] might be priced and sold” (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 8, 67). These officials were high-ranking pochteca; any irregularities, such

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
as a vendor cheating with measures or a consumer with light fingers, were
judged immediately and harshly by these officials.34 The record is silent on
such proceedings in other markets; in these matters the Tlatelolco marketplace
may have been unique, given its importance to both the state and the professional merchants.
It was customary, regardless the scale of the marketplace, for city-state rulers to exact a fee from vendors based on type of commodity. This provided a
tidy income to the local ruler as well as an incentive for him to promote an
attractive and substantial market. Colonial documents also mention that goods
must not be sold outside of a well-regulated marketplace: Motolinía (1971:
368) stated that the reason for this was to reduce theft; Durán (1971: 276) suggested that people feared retributions from the “god of the market” if they
traded outside the marketplace. While these sources suggest that in some cases
incentives to trade in the marketplace were deemed necessary, it is likely that
most individuals clearly saw the benefits of attending the market: not only was
a wide range of goods available, but the marketplace was the locus for important and anticipated social interaction where the news and rumor of the day
(or week or month) were exchanged with enthusiasm.
Less formal rules were also closely followed. Marketplace days were well
established and widely known: as previously noted, some markets met daily,
others every five days, and still others every twenty days. In the marketplace, all goods of the same genre were located together, as in today’s
Mexican open-air marketplaces. The grouping together of similar commodities would have facilitated information on both product availability
and price ranges. Prices were established by bargaining, whereby prices
followed supply and demand fluctuations, whether regionally, seasonally,
ritually, or even daily.
BARTER AND MONEY

The actual form that marketplace exchanges took has been variously, though
incompletely recorded. Several sources indicate that the most common means
of exchange was barter: goods were exchanged for goods (Las Casas 1967:
vol. I, 364, 368; Durán 1971: 275; Motolinía 1971: 374; PNE 1905–1906: vol.
6, 265, 281). Durán (1971: 286) describes exchanges of slaves for large cotton
cloaks (quachtli), gold and stone jewels, and rich feathers. He also speaks of
cloaks exchanged for jewels, jewels for feathers, feathers for stones, and stones
for slaves (Durán 1971: 138). Although barter involving more everyday goods
commands less specific documentary attention, all market goods were surely
available for exchange through barter.35
Yet forms of money also facilitated exchanges in the Aztec marketplaces. As
a broad concept, money is considered to perform four functions: to serve as a
medium of exchange, to act as a standard of value, to provide for the storage of
wealth, and to enable payment (Neale 1976: 7).These functions revolve around

123

124

Aztec Society and Culture

a

b

c

Figure 4.11. (a) Cacao pod with beans. (Photograph by Frances Berdan.) (b) Large cotton
capes, or quachtli. (From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 28r.) (c) Copper axe money.
(Photograph by Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy Field Museum, catalogue no. 164652.)

the notion that certain objects are widely accepted as measures against which
the value of other goods (or services) can be calculated and that those goods
act as “an intermediate, convenient stage in converting one kind of good into
another” (Neale 1976:7). Among the Aztecs and their neighbors, several types
of objects are recorded as money in that sense: cacao beans, large white cotton cloaks (quachtli), copper axes, copper bells, stone and shell beads, and quills
filled with gold dust (Figure 4.11).
Most of these types of goods served commodity functions as well as money
functions. Cacao was the elite beverage of choice throughout Mesoamerica;
René Millon (1955) feels that the value of cacao as an aristocratic beverage far
outweighed its importance as a medium of exchange. Cloaks were male attire,
although there is no direct evidence that this particular type of cloak (quachtli)
was actually worn. Copper bells served as noble gifts, adorned godly idols, and
accompanied the deceased to the underworld of Mictlan (e.g., Boone 1983:
39, 45, 67, 68; Durán 1994: plates 36, 49, 58). Copper axes were precisely that,
although it is difficult to think of a practical cutting use for many of the thin
and fragile examples that have been found (Hosler 2003: 167–169; Hosler
et al. 1990) (Figure 4.11c). Stone and shell beads were valued as ritual offerings, burial accompaniments, elite gifts, articles of ornamentation, and even
gambling stakes throughout Mesoamerica (López Luján 2005; Durán 1994:

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
plates 49, 58; Durán 1971: plates 32, 34; Sahagún 1997; Landa 1941: 95–96).
The development of these particular objects as money forms is understandable: they are quantifiable, divisible, durable, portable, and easily recognized
(Neale 1976: 8).
These objects are most visibly detected in the documents as media of
exchange. LeClair and Schneider (1968: 467) argue that a high-demand commodity will begin to serve exchange functions when people “accept it in
exchange for something else even though they had no immediate direct need
for it in its ordinary use. For any commodity to serve this purpose, there has to
be a consensus about it. When such a consensus arises, the acceptability of the
exchange commodity begins to turn as much on its exchange function as it
does on its original function.” Aztec objects with the most pervasive exchange
functions were cacao beans and quachtli cloaks. These also doubled as useful
commodities. Or did they?
Early colonial sources are liberally sprinkled with comments on the use
of cacao as money.36 These sources consistently point out that cacao could
be exchanged for anything; Motolinía, although mentioning other objects as
money, clearly states that cacao was the most common. In addition to purchasing commodities, these beans reportedly could also be used as payment for
labor, such as the 40 cacao beans paid daily to workers in maguey fields in 1543
(AGI, Justicia 258). Thompson (1956: 97–98) mentions that porters in Yucatán
were paid in cacao beans (20 beans per trip) and that fines were assessed in
terms of cacao beans. These records date from the early colonial period, yet
most likely represent continuity from pre-conquest times.
Cacao beans were not all of the same type or quality, and hence they
varied in value and perhaps even in preferred use. Sahagún (1950–1982:
book 10, 65) mentions cacao beans from several places, including Tochtepec,
Anauac (Gulf and Pacific coasts), and Guatemala. Cacao beans paid in tribute
were clearly different varieties, with ones from the Pacific coast province of
Cihuatlan described as “red cacao” (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folio
38r). One set of valuations notes 240 unspecified cacao beans for 1 cloak
(perhaps a quachtli) and 300 Cihuatlan beans for the same cloak (Scholes and
Adams 1957).
Clavijero (1970: vol. I, 68) makes a particularly interesting suggestion: that
the Aztecs used one species of cacao for the drink (a small variety, called
tlalcacahuatl), while three other species served as money. These cacao beans,
according to Clavijero, had mutually exclusive functions (the beans used for
money were not used for the drink, and vice versa). He also claims that
the three species used for money yielded inferior beverages. Young (2007:
25–26) supports this claim, stating that four kinds of cacao were recognized
and grown by the Maya, with one variety used more for a drink than as a
currency. Cacao beans also varied according to quality. Market prices in a
1545 document from Tlaxcallan indicate that 200 full cacao beans equaled 230

125

126

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 4.3 The Value of Things 1: Some Subsistence Goods
The Aztecs calculated value along many dimensions, some of them material,
others more symbolic. In this case we consider the material side of things: how
goods were measured against each other and given relative values.
The following is a sampling of some central Mexican equivalencies of
subsistence goods in terms of cacao beans. All of these figures derive from a
1545 Tlaxcallan document (Anderson et al. 1976: 208–213). The initial entry
equates 1 Spanish tomín with 200 full or 230 shrunken cacao beans. Since
the remaining prices are expressed in terms of cacao beans rather than Spanish coin, they probably reflect similar relative values present in pre-Spanish
markets.
1 turkey cock
1 turkey hen
1 hare or forest rabbit
1 small rabbit
1 large strip of pine bark for kindling
1 large salamander
1 small salamander
fish wrapped in maize husks
1 turkey egg
1 avocado (newly picked)
1 avocado (fully ripe)
1 prickly pear cactus fruit (newly picked)
2 prickly pear cactus fruits (fully ripe)
2 local green chiles (newly picked)
4 local green chiles (fully ripe)
1 large tomato
20 small tomatoes
1 tamale
chopped firewood (unspecified amount)

200 full cacao beans
100
100
30
5
4
2–3
3
3
3
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

This small sample of equivalencies offers some interesting insights into Aztec
valuations. First, quality: some perishable foods carried a higher value when
recently picked than when fully ripe (the latter with a shorter “shelf life”). Second,
valuation criteria: Cortés (1928: 89) says that number and measure (but not weight)
were used in marketplace transactions. Here we see both number and size as valuation criteria (as with the salamanders and tomatoes). Third, fluidity: bargaining
may have been useful in the final determination of some prices, as with the 2–3
cacao beans for a small salamander and the unspecified amount of firewood.

shrunken ones (Anderson et al. 1976: 208–213). Given these factors, standardization may have been rather fluid.
While cacao beans carried relatively small value and were regularly
exchanged for low-value items (see Case 4.3), they were apparently deemed

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
valuable enough to counterfeit. This was accomplished by removing or
drilling through the outer husk and replacing the prized chocolate with
sand, ground avocado pits, or a similar material (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
10, 65; Oviedo y Valdés 1851–1855: vol. I, 316). The adulterated beans were
then mixed in with good ones, and they were sold together as a measured
quantity.
Another item commonly mentioned in exchanges is the plain white cotton
cloak, or quachtli, referred to earlier. These cloaks are described as money (e.g.,
ENE 1939–1942: vol. I, 86) for a variety of transactions. Slaves were valued in
terms of quachtli (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 87), quachtli were used as restitution for theft (PNE 1905–1906: vol. 6, 223), “bathed slaves” were ransomed
with quachtli (PNE 1905–1906: vol. 6, 64), quachtli were used as the standard
against which other goods were valued in a 1554 tribute document (Scholes
and Adams 1957), and the standard of living was expressed in terms of these
cloaks. For the last, it was estimated that a person (commoner?) could support
himself (and his family?) for approximately one year on 20 quachtli (Motolinía
1971: 367).
Reminiscent of cacao, different grades of quachtli, perhaps based on quality
or size, also carried different values. One statement (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
9, 48) indicates that different grades of cloaks were each equivalent to 65, 80,
or 100 cacao beans. Also as with cacao, there is little evidence to support the
possibility that this type of cloak was actually worn or displayed. Again, if we
were well-enculturated Aztecs, we might have understood that certain cacao
beans and certain cloaks were used for exchange, while other types of cacao
and cloaks were consumed or worn.
We know less about the other documented forms of money, yet their use
as commodities and a general lack of full standardization reflect this discussion
of cacao beans and quachtli. It is difficult to find a practical use for quills with
gold dust, beyond the one observation that they were used as a measure of
value determined by the length and thickness of the quills (Díaz del Castillo
1963: 233–234). Copper bells were valued according to their size. The values
of stone beads and red shells also probably varied along similar lines, although
documentation is lacking. Copper axes ranged from paper-thin objects (often
found in packets in caches) to heftier varieties. All were recorded as monies
(Hosler 2003; Hosler et al. 1990) and were especially common in the southern
part of the Empire and beyond.
How did money forms operate in actual marketplace exchanges? Cacao
beans were available as media of exchange for relatively inexpensive commodities, while quachtli were more appropriate in exchanges involving higher-end
goods (see Case 4.3). It is possible that barter and money operated in tandem,
with cacao beans used to even out exchanges established through barter (Las
Casas 1967: vol. I, 368). And there may have been some arguing about the

127

128

Aztec Society and Culture
money forms themselves, since cacao beans, quachtli, and other forms were
not fully standardized. (That is, just how shrunken is this cacao bean, really? In
contrast, in the United States today, one would not consider arguing that a nice
shiny quarter should be worth 27 cents while a well-used dull one is worth
only 23.) In another sense, a monetary standard (in cacao beans or quachtli or
both) could have been operating in a conceptual sense, while the actual marketplace transactions looked like barter. For instance, both large tomatoes and
turkey eggs were valued in terms of cacao beans (1 and 3, respectively, as in
Case 4.3), but an actual exchange may have involved three large tomatoes for
one turkey egg, but no cacao beans at all.

markets: some general assertions
The great diversity and quantity of market goods lends support to some
important assertions. With respect to markets in general, (1) Aztec households, large or small, elite or nonelite, were not self-sufficient and relied
on market exchanges to provide or augment their everyday, seasonal, situational, or extraordinary needs; (2) markets were competitive; and (3) vendors,
whether wealthy merchants or humble farmers, targeted a wide array of
consumers who attended the market. With specific reference to the massive Tlatelolco market: (1) it drew on market goods produced far beyond
its local city and region, the Basin of Mexico; (2) this market was a sufficiently important economic force that it drew political and military attention; and (3) it attracted short- and long-distance merchants who carried a
wide range of goods to the imperial capital. Especially productive research
on Mesoamerican marketing has recently emphasized “the importance of
considering multiple spatial scales in the study of marketplace exchange,
from localized activity areas to interregional interaction” (Stark and Garraty
2010: 33; Feinman and Garraty 2010). The assertions made here are consistent
with this approach.
Professional Merchants: Economic Goals and Political Connections
Just as marketplaces of different types and scales provided the context for material exchanges, so did merchants, also of different types and scales, serve as
major conduits for those exchanges. Most of the vendors in any marketplace
were purveyors of their own surplus production. In the great Tlatelolco marketplace the wood seller was a woodcutter, the seller of lime was a limeworker,
the basket seller was a basket maker, the turkey and egg vendor raised turkeys, the fish seller was a fisherman, bowl and griddle sellers made bowls and
griddles, and so on. Some products and goods such as salt and cotton were
sold by both producers/manufacturers and retailers (among them, regional
merchants). Still other commodities were predominantly in the hands of longdistance professional merchants: fancy decorated clothing, precious stones,

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade

129

Figure 4.12. Map of imperial and international trading centers. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan.)

tropical feathers, slaves, and the quachtli discussed earlier (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 10). Of greatest interest here are the regional and long-distance merchants, those whose livelihoods were based on economic gain through profitable exchanges.
REGIONAL MERCHANTS

Trade across regions, in middle-range goods, was the domain of regional
merchants, or tlanecuilo. These professional traders could potentially deal in
virtually any commodity, but they tended to concentrate on “bulk luxuries,” especially cotton, cacao, and salt. They frequented the great Tlatelolco
marketplace, selling these bulk luxuries but also products as varied as chiles,
painted gourd bowls, and cane carrying baskets (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
10, 65–94). The tlanecuilo appear to have been particularly active in moving regional varieties of important commodities such as cotton, cacao, and
chiles, providing the urban residents with an inviting assortment of consumer goods. The regional merchants did not, however, monopolize trade
in those products. Goods often were supplied through a variety of means;
for instance, cotton and cacao were retailed by tlanecuilo but were also
imported by long-distance merchants (oztomeca) and sold by the field owners themselves.

130

Aztec Society and Culture
The tlanecuilo were also a common fixture in the provincial and extraprovincial landscape, within and beyond the Basin of Mexico (see Figure 4.12).
For example, in Coyoacan, near Tenochtitlan, regional merchants dealt in
salt, wood, chia, and fish (Anderson et al. 1976: 138–149). Merchants from
Tenochtitlan itself carried loads of cotton from Cuauhnahuac south of the
Basin of Mexico to sell in Tenochtitlan (Durán 1994: 106). In the southern
imperial client state of Miahuatlan, nearby merchants traded in salt, cochineal, and amolli,37 while merchants from distant regions brought salt, maize,
fish, cotton, and chiles to Miahuatlan’s market (PNE 1905–1906: vol. IV, 126,
122). Just beyond imperial control, merchants brought salt to Pacific coast
communities, trading it for cotton (what they then did with the cotton goes
unrecorded).
Whether plying their wares in Coyoacan, Miahuatlan, or a multitude of
other locales, these regional merchants are frequently described as hailing from
specific communities. So there were the Atonco wood dealers in the Coyoacan
marketplace, the Coatlan salt traders in Miahuatlan, and the Tenochtitlan cotton merchants. Unfortunately, the sources are silent on how mercantile activity was structured at this level. How extensive were these community trading
specializations? Were trading enterprises individually based, or were they controlled and encouraged by some more formal organization? Did they travel
with political entailments or support? These questions persist for the tlanecuilo but are more satisfactorily answered for the long-distance merchants, the
pochteca and oztomeca.
LONG-DISTANCE MERCHANTS

Professional long-distance merchants were based in at least twelve Basin of
Mexico cities (Figure 4.13), and they operated as both state agents and private
entrepreneurs. As state agents, pochteca from five Basin of Mexico cities served
as diplomatic emissaries for the Tenochtitlan ruler in lands beyond the imperial
boundaries. These merchants, from Tenochtitlan, Tlatelolco, Huitzilopochco,
Azcapotzalco, and Cuauhtitlan, carried the Tenochtitlan ruler’s goods beyond
the Empire to exchange with rulers in foreign districts (see Figure 4.12).38
On at least one occasion, the Mexica ruler Ahuitzotl (r. 1486–1502) sent
Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco merchants to the Tlatelolco market with 1,600 of
his quachtli. There, the merchants exchanged the ruler’s cloaks for fancy ones,
which they carried to Xicalanco and Xoconochco for exchange with foreign
rulers there (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 7–8). The fact that the ruler’s goods
were embellished textiles rather than “money textiles” highlights the political
overtones of these exchanges. In return, the merchants carried away jadeite,
turquoise mosaic shields, tortoise shell cups, shells, wild animal skins, and an
array of precious feathers (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 17–19). This account
stresses that all of these goods were the property of the Tenochtitlan ruler;
the merchants were strictly emissaries in these exchanges. The diplomatic

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
nature of these ventures is further accentuated by the provision of armed
escorts for the merchants when they traveled beyond the Empire. In addition,
the royal popularity of these long-distance merchants undoubtedly stemmed
from their critical role in supplying the nobility with essential symbols of
their social status: fine feathers, precious stones, golden ornaments, exquisite
clothing, and slaves.
International trade centers served as important venues for exchanges between
rulers of far-distant parts, with merchants as intermediaries (Figure 4.12).
Formerly described as neutral “ports of trade” (Chapman 1957), these locales
have since been shown to demonstrate a variety of political affiliations and a
strong commercial flavor (Gasco and Berdan 2003). They attracted merchants
and goods from long distances, facilitating trade from one end of Mesoamerica
to another. So Xicalanco, an Aztec pochteca destination, drew merchants from
Mayan polities as well, even though Aztec warriors may have been stationed
there (Gasco and Berdan 2003: 113). Xoconochco, another pochteca destination,
was an imperial province that attracted merchants with precious cargo from
the Guatemalan highlands and beyond. Huexotla, an Aztec client state far to
the northeast, appealed to highland merchants who found salt and other goods
brought there from distant Mayan regions. Perhaps one of the most lively
international trade centers was Cholula, although aside from its recognition
as a merchant center, little is known of its economic dynamics. It was, during
the Aztec imperial period, one of the most politically and militarily volatile
areas of central Mexico. One thing is certain: several centers on the fringes of
the Empire (and despite their political associations) provided known and predictable arenas for high-end merchants to exchange their luxuries and bulk
luxuries with other merchants from afar.
Professional long-distance merchants dealing in luxury goods served not
only the Tenochtitlan ruler and were centered not only in the Basin of Mexico.
Pochteca from seven recorded Basin of Mexico cities may have served the
Texcocan or other ruler in the same manner as the professional merchants
served the Tenochtitlan ruler (see Figure 4.13).39 And beyond the Empire,
Cholula as a major merchant hub may well have had its own entailed merchants, as might have other polities outside the Empire such as Xicalanco and
centers throughout the Mayan area.
Other professional merchants from the Basin of Mexico, called oztomeca,
served their rulers as spies in foreign or restless regions. They were masters
of disguise, trading in marketplaces and gathering the most recent news and
rumors of the region to report to the imperial ruler. It is no surprise that, as
imperial ambassadors and spies, the pochteca and oztomeca were not particularly popular beyond their homelands and that, wherever they traveled, they
went armed and in large caravans. Attacks on professional merchants were
frequent provocations (and perhaps excuses) for the initiation of wars and
conquests.

131

132

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 4.13. Map showing pochteca presence in the Basin of Mexico. (Drawing by
Jennifer Berdan.)

As private entrepreneurs, these same merchants appeared in the Tlatelolco
marketplace selling fine clothing, exquisite feathers, precious stones, quachtli,
and slaves (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10). They traded fine wares in marketplaces within and beyond the bounds of the Empire (Figure 4.12). Those
who traveled on their rulers’ business to extra-Empire centers also carried
their own private goods, such as fancy golden necklaces for nobles and
obsidian tools and rabbit fur for commoners (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9,
17–18). But some guild-organized merchants traded only within the imperial bounds, carrying high-value, low-bulk goods from market to market
in pursuit of economic gain. The luxury market at Tepeacac, on the fringe
of the Empire, may have been established with such merchants in mind (as
described earlier). These merchants were apparently no more popular than
those representing rulers, as they were accused of buying cheap and selling
dear in their economic dealings, taking advantage of local producers (e.g.,
Durán 1994: 349).

Craft Specialization, Commerce, and Trade
SPECIALIZATION AND TRADE IN AZTEC IMPERIAL
EXPANSION

Aztec imperial expansion brought many advantages and opportunities, especially to luxury craft specialists and professional merchants. It also placed
demands and stresses on these same individuals and groups.

Luxury Artisans
Imperial expansion provided increasingly predictable supplies of raw materials
to the luxury artisans of highland central Mexico through tribute imposition
and the political support of long-distance merchant ventures. Luxury artisans
transformed fine feathers, stones, and metals into the exquisite status-linked
objects in remarkably high demand by the hereditary nobility. Some luxury
artisans were “attached” to rulers and probably other high-ranking nobles,
while others sold their finery in the marketplaces. In either case, as the aristocracy and its flamboyance grew, so too did the importance of the luxury
artisans who enriched those nobles and provided the symbols of their exalted
status (see Chapter 6). We can posit an expanding need for the output of the
luxury artisans, resulting in the movement of such artisans to Basin urban
centers (documented) and a certain amount of job security for those producers (posited). As expected, they enjoyed particularly close relations with longdistance professional merchants. On the other hand, while business must have
been brisk, these artisans faced external competition, since many luxury items
flowed into Basin cities as tribute in fully manufactured form (see Chapter 5).

Pochteca and Oztomeca
City-state rulers enlisted the services of their resident professional merchants
in diplomatic ventures advantageous to their polity. As political emissaries, these merchants contributed to the economic expansion of the Empire
beyond its borders – they provided exotic goods to the imperial elite that
were not available through conquest and tribute. Furthermore, they collected
intelligence from distant lands, both conquered and unconquered, to assist the
Aztec polities in their military strategies of expansion. In their roles as both
state agents and private entrepreneurs, pochteca and oztomeca also accumulated
great wealth. Political sponsorship of their commercial activities offered them
safety in hostile regions and access to extra-Empire markets. That said, these
merchants were quite capable of expanding the Empire militarily as well as
commercially by their own efforts. The conquest of the distant and rich realm
of Xoconochco for the Mexica was attributed to pochteca military aggression.
No wonder they were so esteemed by the Mexica ruler.
Predictably, the political connections of these merchants made them targets for
attack in outlying areas. Their journeys are consistently described as particularly

133

134

Aztec Society and Culture
hazardous, and they were robbed and even murdered often enough: carrying
the flag of a conquering, enemy, or unpopular city-state, these merchants were
“politically tainted” in their far-flung expeditions. While they were mourned,
their fates provided the Aztec polities with excuses for continuing warfare and
conquest. Merchants’ wealth (and perhaps imperial favor as well) also placed them
in a tenuous social and political position at home, resulting in a need to mask their
wealth in front of the hereditary nobility. Beyond that, the demands on ambitious
guild-organized merchants must have created personal and household stresses as
these ambitious individuals strove to climb the merchant hierarchy.

Intra-Empire Professional Merchants
Despite the hypothesis of Acosta-Saignes (1945) and Chapman (1957: 122) that
trade preceded tribute and that professional merchant trade ceased in conquered areas, a great deal of pochteca activity was concentrated within imperial bounds. Those merchants from the Basin of Mexico restricted to trading
within the Empire would have greatly benefited from the expansion of the
Empire, which extended their mercantile range and provided them access to
increasingly distant exotic goods. They operated in markets, and the vitality of
provincial and Basin markets was critical to their entrepreneurial success. As the
Empire expanded to incorporate thriving markets such as those at Tochpan,
Tzicoac, and Coaytlahuacan, these merchants gained in range and prosperity.
Still, like the professional merchants sent to foreign lands, they carried the
taint of unpopular political affiliations. Since merchant-spies operated within
the Empire as well as beyond, they were usually under suspicion in their travels.
And like the more far-ranging pochteca, the demands of gaining ascendancy in
the merchant hierarchy must have been both stressful and costly.

Economy and Polity
Like their counterparts throughout history and worldwide, Aztec artisans,
markets, and merchants were embedded in their broader political, social, and
religious milieu. City-state rulers engaged in selective meddling, artisans and
merchants targeted and accommodated commoner and noble consumers, and
all of these economic actors and institutions responded to the demands of the
extravagant rituals of the annual religious calendar.
This leads us to matters of polity and power: city-states, provinces, and
empire. Our familiar economic actors are joined by political ones: rulers, generals, ambassadors, governors, tribute collectors, and a bevy of royal administrators who wend their way through political intrigues and the dynamics of
city-state and imperial expansion.

C hap t e r 5
C I T Y- S TAT E S A N D I M P E R I A L RU L E

5 Rabbit [1458]. In this year the elder Moteuczomatzin declared war, and
consequently all went to Coaixtlahuacan to fight the battles and make the
conquests. At this time the great ruler Atonal was ruling there, occupying
himself with tribute collection from everywhere in the coastlands.... By
this time the city of Coaixtlahuacan had been captured. Then for the first
time gold, quetzal plumes, rubber, cacao, and other wealth began coming
in; then the Mexica began to feel cheered, thanks to the tribute goods.
Anales de Cuauhtitlan, 1570; in Bierhorst 1992: 107, 108

This chapter is about power and politics. It necessarily outlines the basic political structures of altepetl (city-states), conquest states, and the Triple Alliance
Empire. Consistent with this book’s themes of complexity, variation, and
dynamics, this chapter focuses on the diverse bases for legitimate rule, the
nature and uses of power, the goals of and justifications for military expansion,
and the consequences of empire building. It also explores strategies involved
in the process of imperial expansion: strategies used by the imperial powers
as they expanded their domain, and strategies used by conquered peoples as
they coped with domination. Nothing was simple in the Aztec world, least of
all politics.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS: FROM ALTEPETL TO EMPIRE

The Altepetl, or City-State
The spatial and symbolic heart of an Aztec’s life was his or her altepetl, or
city-state. This term refers to the people of a particular place and supposedly
also to the place itself (Lockhart 1992: 14). But not every settlement was an
altepetl, only those with a legitimate ruling dynasty, a sense (if not the actuality) of political autonomy, control over local lands and labor, a well-established
founding legend, often with mythological underpinnings, and a patron deity

135

136

Aztec Society and Culture
complete with temple. It was also a primary tribute-paying or tribute-receiving unit. Some altepetl also exhibited a predominant ethnicity and/or a specialized occupation and may have enjoyed renown as extraordinary market or
pilgrimage destinations.
The word altepetl consists of the elements atl (water) and tepetl (hill), both
considered essential to the identity and establishment of any politically significant community. According to Sahagún (1950–1982: book 11, 247), “[T]hey
said that the mountains were only magic places ... that they were filled with
water.... And hence the people called their settlements altepetl.” The goddess
Chalchiuhtlicue was in charge of sending the water from those mountains. All
of this lent a strongly sacred quality to any altepetl.
Yet these were essentially political units; the city-states of the Postclassic
Basin of Mexico provided the basic building blocks of Aztec political life.They
were present at least by AD 1200, predating the arrival of the Mexica in the
Basin (Hodge 1996: 31; Nichols 2004: 272). Spatially, altepetl typically consisted
of an urban center, politically attached outlying rural settlements, and accompanying farmland (Smith 2008: 89).1 In colonial times, the urban center usually became a cabecera (head town), while the outliers were called sujetos. This
implies dominant–subordinate relations between urban and rural centers, but
it is not so clear if that relationship held in Aztec times (see Lockhart 1992:
19–20; Fargher et al. 2010: 236). Nonetheless, the urban center (capital city)
served as the political, religious, and economic focus of the altepetl, and contained a central plaza, temples, royal palace, other elite palaces, ballcourt, marketplace, and commoner houses (Smith 2003a: 59, 2008: 90; Hodge 1984: 17).
The city also served as the seat of power for the altepetl’s ruler or rulers (tlatoani,
sing.; tlatoque, pl.). Rural settlements were primarily residential locales.
City-states were divided into smaller constituent units called calpolli or tlaxilacalli (roughly defined as neighborhoods or wards). While these tended to be
ranked in importance, with the tlatoani residing in one calpolli, their overall
organization tended to conform more to a cellular than a hierarchical principle (Lockhart 1992: 16–20). That is, altepetl tended to be divided into an
even number of calpolli (although seven was also a popular number), and each
had its own name, deity, temple, leader, military school, and portion of altepetl
lands (Lockhart 1992: 16–17). Each calpolli carried roughly equivalent shares
of altepetl responsibilities. Tribute due to a city-state’s ruler was collected and
administered at the calpolli level; along with tribute in portable goods, this
included assessments of labor duties and the provision of military units when
called to war.
City-states varied considerably in size. By the Late Postclassic there were an
estimated 30–50 altepetl within the Basin of Mexico (Hodge 1996: 31; Smith
2003c: 148) and several hundred beyond. Morelos, just to the south of the Basin
of Mexico, was divided into almost 70 city-states (Smith 1994: 314). By the
time of the Spanish arrival, the Aztec Empire controlled (to various degrees)

City-States and Imperial Rule
about 450 city-states beyond the Basin of Mexico (Smith 2003c: 148). As for
populations, a typical altepetl in the Basin of Mexico contained 10,000–15,000
people, while those in Morelos were generally smaller, ranging from 5,000 to
10,000 persons (Smith 2008: 90). As we saw in Chapter 2, Tenochtitlan was
atypically large. The “typical” figures provide only a general idea of scale, but
they do not convey a sense of the complexity and diversity of these political
units. Hodge (1984, 1994) argues for a hierarchical ordering of altepetl, with the
power of a city-state more closely associated with its population size than with
its territorial extent (Hodge 1994: 61). This hierarchy in the Basin of Mexico
ranged from Tenochtitlan (by itself) at the apex, followed by Texcoco (also by
itself) as a regional state capital, then by a large number of city-state centers,
dependent city-states, and administered city-states (Hodge 1994: 53–59).
Throughout the Postclassic there was nothing stable about a city-state’s
position vis-à-vis its neighbors. City-state relations featured competition and
cooperation, warfare and alliance. City-states were in constant interaction with
other city-states and “far from self-sufficient in the economic sphere” (Smith
2003a: 60). In this volatile political climate, most altepetl retained self-governance and control over their internal affairs, even though military conquest
may have suppressed their political autonomy.
Ongoing, fluid relations among city-states resulted in rather complex territorial configurations.While in general a city-state controlled contiguous territory,2 warfare, conquest, and redistribution of lands to nobles in other city-states
resulted in discontinuities. If a city-state had been conquered at some time in
its history, some of its lands and commoner labor may have been appropriated
by its conquerors, who redistributed at least some of those resources to their
own (and allied) deserving nobles. The new conquerors also claimed rights to
tribute and allegiance from their vanquished subjects, whether nobles or commoners. Where conquests were made by allied powers, the subjugated lands
were divided among the various conquerors. Pedro Carrasco (1999: 34–40)
calls all of this “the intermingling of territories,” an apt phrase. It can be quite
frustrating for the modern scholar to unravel these complexities. Gibson (1971:
390) says it very well with regard to the city-state of Cuauhtitlan:
A single town was subject to many service and tribute demands, and its
leaders received tribute from many other towns as well. Cuauhtitlan paid
tribute in different amounts and principally from separate lands to its own
tlatoani, to the tlatoani of Tlacopan, to Moctezuma II (who had “ten” private lands in the vicinity ...), and to other owners in Tlatelolco, Culhuacan,
Ixtapalapa, Mexicalcinco, Azcapotzalco and Texcoco.

The upshot was that, from the Aztec point of view, an altepetl was less a territorial unit than a political unit based on people’s allegiance to the ruling dynasty
associated with the city-state (see Smith 2003a: 59; 2008: 91).
While the altepetl was the predominant principle organizing political life
throughout central Mexico, other principles and institutions also defined

137

138

Aztec Society and Culture
the control and allocation of critical resources. In the Puebla-Tlaxcallan and
Mixtec-Zapotec regions, political authority rested with nobles and their
noble or great houses, allied into kingdoms or confederacies (Pohl 2003;
Chance 2000). Lane Fargher and his colleagues (2010, 2011a, 2011b) muster
considerable evidence for an essentially egalitarian, achievement-oriented,
and council-based government in Postclassic Tlaxcallan. Whether instituted
as city-states or noble houses, these governing units coalesced into larger
units through either conquest or alliance, resulting in conquest states and
confederacies.

Conquest States and Confederacies
During both the Early and Late Postclassic periods, some altepetl emerged as
more powerful and aggressive than others. These city-states developed into
conquest states, but they were not sufficiently extensive or complex to be considered empires (Smith 2003a: 58). In the Basin of Mexico prior to the ascendancy of the Aztec Empire, Azcapotzalco in the west and Texcoco in the east
would qualify as conquest states. Azcapotzalco in particular had begun to gain
Basin political prominence, enthralling a sizable number of city-states (including Tenochtitlan). During the Late Postclassic in Morelos, most of the region’s
seventy city-states were subjugated by six conquest states that extracted tribute
payments from their subjects and engaged in active warfare among themselves
(Smith 1994: 315).
City-states also shared a city-state culture, “a group of interacting city-states
in a region characterized by a common language and culture” (Smith 2003b:
35). Some of these forged confederacies, although the bases for such confederacies varied. In the Basin of Mexico, such broad units were held together
primarily through shared language and ethnicity; in the Puebla-Tlaxcallan and
Mixtec-Zapotec regions, linkages based on common origin myths and elite
interactions (including intermarriages) provided the foundation for confederations (Smith 2003c: 36; Pohl 2003).
The Basin of Mexico confederations are among the best known to us today.
In the fourteenth and early fifteenth centuries, eight of them vied for regional
dominion,3 but none managed to gain any sustained control over the basin
as a whole (Hodge 1996: 20) (Figure 5.1). One notable confederation was
Amecamecan/Chalco, in the southeastern corner of the Basin of Mexico. It
qualified as a powerful confederation from 1367 until its conquest by the Aztec
Triple Alliance in 1465 (Hodge 1984: 40).4 It was a troublesome bottleneck in
the military expansion goals of the Triple Alliance, holding off Triple Alliance
forces over the reigns of four Mexica kings. The Aztecs imposed military rule
there for twenty years after its conquest, a move that accentuated Chalco’s strategic location and internal strength, as well as a lack of trust in its local rulers
by the conquering Aztecs.

City-States and Imperial Rule

Figure 5.1. Basin of Mexico ethnic groups. (Drawing by Jennifer Berdan, after
Gibson 1964.)

The Aztec Triple Alliance
Fortunes waxed and waned with city-states, conquest states, and confederations. The most powerful confederation to emerge in the early fifteenthcentury Basin of Mexico was the Aztec Triple Alliance, forged among the
powerful city-states of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and Tlacopan. Earlier in the
fifteenth century, the Tepaneca of Azcapotzalco had emerged as the leading
power in the Basin, when their elderly ruler died and his sons fought violently
for the throne. With internal factions weakening Azcapotzalco, the Mexica of
Tenochtitlan (allied with the Acolhua of Texcoco) made their move toward

139

140

Aztec Society and Culture
military supremacy.This was in 1428. As the alliance emerged victorious, it was
further strengthened by the addition of the Tepaneca city-state of Tlacopan.5
These victors then moved quickly to subdue other city-states in the basin:
the southern city-states were conquered by 1432, those in the west were controlled by 1435, and those to the east were brought into the imperial web by
1430 (Hodge 1996: 20–21). As previously mentioned, Chalco remained a thorn
in their side until 1465, and Tlatelolco retained its independence until its conquest by Tenochtitlan in 1473.
Pleased with their results in the Basin of Mexico but far from satisfied, the
Triple Alliance rulers set their sights farther afield, extending their dominion throughout most of central Mexico by the time of the Spanish arrival.
In these enterprises, sometimes the three imperial capitals operated independently, sometimes in concert.
The internal structure of the Triple Alliance is a matter of some controversy,
due partly to partisan reporting from chroniclers favoring either Tenochtitlan
or Texcoco. It is clear, however, that each of the three imperial capitals preeminently controlled certain conquered city-states, with the Mexica emphasizing polities to the south, the Acolhua to the northeast, and the Tepaneca
to the northwest. Each imperial capital, therefore, sat at the apex of its own
political hierarchy. Neat as this may seem, there were complications. When
the three imperial entities went to war together, they divided the conquered
lands and subjects unequally into three parts: two-fifths of the spoils went to
Tenochtitlan, two-fifths to Texcoco, and one-fifth to Tlacopan, reflecting the
relative stature of the three allied polities (P. Carrasco 1999: 33, 36). Further
complications ensued upon the actual distribution of these resources, as lands
and subjects were presented variously to an imperial ruler’s relatives, to allied
and dependent rulers, to various nobles, to meritorious warriors, and to community divisions (calpolli or tlaxilacalli). And, of course, the supreme ruler kept
some of these hard-fought gains for himself. Each imperial ruler was involved
in these claims and distributions, so that over time each of the allies “had possessions in the sectors of the other two parties” (P. Carrasco 1999: 34).
Although this alliance lasted only about ninety years, it underwent some
significant changes during its short life span. One especially notable shift
was in the power relations among the three supreme city-states. It appears
that Tenochtitlan and Texcoco began on relatively equivalent footing. But
as the Empire expanded, Tenochtitlan emerged preeminent in the military
realm, while Texcoco retained prominence in law, engineering, and the arts.
Tlacopan’s claim to fame, if any, remains unknown. Lori Diel (2007), looking
at the dynamics of royal marriages, suggests that by 1519 Texcoco was perhaps smarting under Tenochtitlan’s dominance and was making moves toward
greater autonomy. There were internal tensions, embedded in stories. One
account describes a campaign between Nezahualcoyotl of Texcoco (r. 1418–
1472) and Itzcoatl of Tenochtitlan in which the Texcocan ruler gained some

City-States and Imperial Rule
rich tributary territories at the expense of Itzcoatl. A second story speaks of a
“feigned war” between Nezahualcoyotl and Itzcoatl’s successor, Motecuhzoma
Ilhuicamina, in which the Mexica ruler obtained lands in Texcoco’s territory
(P. Carrasco 1999: 34; Hodge 1996: 21). These may not be entirely contradictory tales (since they are set at different times), but rather are reflective of the
increasing power of Tenochtitlan at the expense of Texcoco. Other indications
of Tenochtitlan’s supremacy in the alliance include the Mexica’s meddling in
political and economic affairs in the Tepaneca domain (as described later);
statements that imperial tribute from afar was delivered first to Tenochtitlan, to
be then distributed to the other allies; and the fact that when Cortés arrived
on the shores of Mexico in 1519 there was great talk of Motecuhzoma but
not of the other allied rules. While each of the other imperial capitals retained
some autonomy in their own affairs and performed ritual and political roles
in imperial administration, by the early sixteenth century the Mexica had
clearly emerged as the dominant military, political, and economic power of
the alliance.
POLITICAL ACTORS: RULERS AND EMPERORS

Rulers and Rulerships
I have repeatedly referred to city-states conquering other city-states, and this is
common modern practice. But I may just as accurately (or, perhaps, more so)
refer to a tlatoani conquering another tlatoani. Whether considering an altepetl
or the Empire as a whole, focus was on that polity’s ruler. It was rulers, not citystates, who declared wars, engaged in diplomacy, feasted and intimidated enemy
or rebellious rulers, and rewarded warriors, merchants, and others who served
them in their political and economic enterprises. The initial Triple Alliance,
then, may be better phrased as an alliance among Itzcoatl (of Tenochtitlan),
Nezahualcoyotl (of Texcoco), and Totoquihuatzin (of Tlacopan).
While individual rulers made their mark on the changing political landscape, it was the genealogical dynasty of a city-state’s or empire’s rulers that
defined that polity. So we speak of not only rulers but also rulerships (tlatocayotl). Continuity at the highest level was important. When it was interrupted
(as with the installation of an imposed governor), this was a serious blow to
the integrity of the polity. Indeed, the position of an altepetl depended to a
great extent on the achievements and reputations of its rulers. A ruler was
iyollo altepetl, “the heart of the city-state.” Molina (1970) equates “Pueblo de
todos juntamente” with altepetl (99v), and under “Rey” he sends the reader to
“tlatoani. Altepetl” (103r). He maintains consistency by equating “pueblo, o rey”
with altepetl in the Nahuatl–Spanish section of his dictionary (4r). The close
connection between a ruler (king) and the altepetl was clearly conveyed to
Molina in the sixteenth century. All of this is posed in the singular: one tlatoani

141

142

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 5.1 Imperial Personalities
The Aztec Empire was a powerful military and political entity. Its rapid growth
was based on well-established rules, conventions, and symbolic messages; diplomacy, feasting, royal marriages, and military encounters all revolved around
these mutual understandings and expectations. Did these conventions have a
life of their own, or was there room for each new ruler to stamp it with his
unique personality and predilections?
There are no native portraits of the Mexica dynastic rulers in the codices.There
are several Europeanized portraits of Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin, but these do not
necessarily reflect the indigenous image of the ruler. The closest rendering is the
sculpture of the second Motecuhzoma at the base of Chapultepec Hill (commissioned by himself), but this reveals little of the ruler as an individual. Even in
colonial codices executed by native scribes, Motecuhzoma and his predecessors
are depicted in a standardized manner: usually sitting on royal woven seats, wearing turquoise diadems, covered with a cloak, and staring in profile. Aside from
their name glyphs, they are usually indistinguishable from one another. Other
renderings (in codices and especially in sculptures) depict rulers in standing poses
as they perform military and religious duties. For example, Tizoc stands as he
captures enemies on his famous stone, Tizoc and Ahuitzotl dress and perform as
priests on the Dedication Stone, and Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin is paired with the
god Huitzilopochtli on the Teocalli de la Guerra Sagrada (Pasztory 1983: 147–151;
López Luján and Olivier 2009: 43).These, too, are highly standardized.
Similar as they may appear in these depictions, all of the rulers had different personalities and approached their role as supreme ruler in different ways.
Although their personality attributes are not easily detected, we can still gain
glimpses of these rulers as individuals through their actions. These reveal, at the
very least, their different strengths, weaknesses, priorities, and proclivities. We
need look at only a few of these rulers to make this point: Axayacatl, Tizoc,
Ahuitzotl, and Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin.
Axayacatl, when he acceded to the throne at age 19, was already a renowned
warrior. He ruled only thirteen years, during which he headed several military
engagements, emerging victorious in about half of them. While he subdued
Toluca and Tlatelolco, he suffered a disastrous defeat at the hands of the Tarascans. Staunch warrior that he was, he was also ready and willing to negotiate
with enemies, establishing numerous client states along volatile borderlands
rather than pursuing a strictly military approach (especially along the Tarascan
border). He was a political strategist as well as a warrior.
Tizoc followed Axayacatl with an even shorter reign of six years; even his
first military expedition (pursued to obtain sacrificial captives for his own coronation) was a failure. On the home front, he initiated a major expansion of the
Templo Mayor in Tenochtitlan; he was pious but not a battlefield leader, and his
early demise was probably no accident. In this case, it appears that, if the electors wished to expand the glory of the Mexica, they chose poorly.
Ahuitzotl, in contrast, has been likened to Alexander the Great (Davies 1987:
80, 87). He was ambitious, fearless, heroic, stubborn, and impetuous (Davies

City-States and Imperial Rule
1987: 80) and expanded the Empire to its greatest geographical extent (leaving,
however, numerous unconquered city-states along the way). His goals and priorities were to control rich tribute-paying lands. These were tropical regions,
far from his capital – he pursued these distant and expensive conquests with
unwavering energy. Unlike Axayacatl, he rarely negotiated: he was not a big fan
of the client state approach. Outright conquest was his modus operandi. All
of this makes sense, as he was also an extravagant spender, lavishing fine goods
on enemies and subjects alike, literally draining his palace and state coffers. He
did not adhere as closely as his predecessors to noble–commoner distinctions
and promoted some non-noble military men into his administration. He was a
larger-than-life military hero and was loved for his generosity; he left his successor with few stores of much-needed luxuries and pressure to engage in still
further conquests.
That successor was Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin. We have more details on this
ruler’s life than on any other, in that he had the misfortune to see his empire
end at the hands of the conquistadores from Spain. Descriptions of this tlatoani
vary, even contradict one another. He was hesitant and weak. No, he was a
forceful military ruler. He was superstitious. No, he believed in the gods and
fate just as any self-respecting Aztec did.While most of these impressions derive
from reports of his interactions with the Spaniards, it should be remembered
that during his reign he was proactive in solidifying his power at home and
abroad. He made numerous successful conquests, spending most of his military
energy closing the gaps left by Ahuitzotl and quelling rebellions among restless
and unhappy conquered subjects.While expanding his domain, he also concentrated on glorifying his city, his gods, and his dynasty, sponsoring the sculpting
of many major monuments. In particular, he took great care to properly celebrate and venerate the gods. His actions also show that he was a haughty and
elitist ruler (like most of his predecessors); insisting on severe class distinctions,
he reversed Ahuitzotl’s commoner appointments.
All of these rulers were chosen because they exhibited qualities seen to be
advantageous to the administration and expansion of the Empire. Some were
weak (such as Tizoc), some stronger (such as Ahuitzotl). Some were diplomatic
strategists as well as warriors (such as Axayacatl); others saw only war (again,
Ahuitzotl). Some were pious (Tizoc and Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin). While
a genuine knowledge of their personalities will forever elude us, we do get a
sense of their individuality and their differing impacts on imperial growth.

per altepetl. Yet there were significant variations in polities, with some citystates qualifying as “composite” or “complex.” In some of these cases there was
a hierarchy between rulers (as in Cuauhtitlan and Coyoacan), while in others
the tlatoque ruled on a more equal footing (as in Cuitlahuac and Xochimilco)
(Hodge 1996: 32–34; Lockhart 1992: 20–28).6
Nine tlatoque are identified for the Tenochtitlan Mexica from 1372 to 1520;
six of them ruled during the Mexica imperial ascendancy (Figure 5.2). All of
their reigns were characterized by the unrelenting pursuit of supremacy in the

143

144

Aztec Society and Culture
Basin of Mexico and beyond through political, military, and economic strategies. Their approaches varied, some relying more on negotiation and alliances,
others more on outright military conquest (Case 5.1). But regardless of their
different approaches and personalities, they all shouldered the same public and
ritual burdens, were constrained by established expectations, and struggled to
maintain legitimate rule. While rulers were preferentially and predominantly
male, women occasionally ascended altepetl thrones. For instance, by some
reports Atotoztli, a daughter of Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina, succeeded her
father as tlatoani in Tenochtitlan,7 and Chimalpahin mentions two strong and
greatly feared female rulers in Late Postclassic Amecamecan history (Gillespie
1989: 98–106; Anderson 1997: 83; Carrasco 1984: 60–61).

Duties and Expectations
Rulers were ultimately responsible for the fate of their domains and all the
people within them. Metaphorically, the ruler cared for “the wings, the tail”
(i.e., the commoners). Some of his most important duties lay in the military
realm: warfare and the destruction of cities and the obverse, the guarding of
his homeland. He personally commanded military campaigns.8 He assembled
war councils and bestowed rewards on those who distinguished themselves in
battle. If he conquered another city-state, he managed tribute collections and
distributions. He involved himself in the installation of other rulers and nobles
and in arranging elite marriages. His preeminent role in diplomatic negotiations demanded that he host lavish feasts and present his city as a powerful and
wealthy entity. He dealt with internal affairs as well, overseeing the market,
public works, education, justice, the ball game and patolli, and even proper
sanitation. He was a problem solver: his subjects looked to him when there was
famine or other disaster (Sahagún 1997: 198–201).
The ruler also ensured that the deities were properly venerated (López Luján
and Olivier 2009). He was personally engaged in the endless ritual round, performing autosacrifice when required,9 overseeing temple constructions and
renovations, supporting the priesthood, and playing a prominent role in dramatic ritual sacrifices.At the spectacular dedication ceremony for Tenochtitlan’s
Templo Mayor in 1487, the three Triple Alliance rulers performed the first of
numerous human sacrifices (Durán 1994: 338–339).
Throughout central Mexico, there were fairly consistent expectations and
standards attached to the position of tlatoani. Sitting on their woven reed
mats and seats at the apex of Aztec politics, they were models of their culture.
Tlatoani means “speaker,” and a ruler was always expected to be an eloquent
orator. It was also necessary that he be a skilled and experienced warrior and
military commander, proven in combat. Few imperial tlatoque stayed home
during major military campaigns, and several established their military reputations before being raised to that most exalted position. For example, although

City-States and Imperial Rule

145

Figure 5.2. Royal
genealogy of the Mexica
of Tenochtitlan. (Drawing
by Jennifer Berdan.)

146

Aztec Society and Culture
reportedly still relatively young when selected as a ruler, Axayacatl had already
earned his stripes on the battlefield (Davies 1987: 105). It was important for
the ruler to earn the respect of his people, and when he was raised to the position of tlatoani, he was admonished: ‘[M]ay thou (not) be quarrelsome ... may
thou (not) offend the governed.... And (do not) be asleep, lie reclining, lie in
pleasure; nor sleep, gorge, be a glutton.... May thy possessions not ... wrongly
result from the sweat, the fatigue, the labor of the common folk” (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 6, 51). These are stated ideals and do not mesh particularly
well with other information on the extravagant lifestyle of rulers with their
massive meals and commoner support.10 It did not hurt that a tlatoani was deified (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 52).

The Establishment and Maintenance of Legitimacy and Power
choosing a leg itimate ruler
In addition to strong personal qualities, the elected tlatoani of Tenochtitlan
or Texcoco must also satisfy certain other prerequisites. He must be a close
relative, most often a son or brother, of the prior ruler (usually a brother in
Tenochtitlan, a son in Texcoco). Ideally, his mother should be the highest
ranking of all of his father’s wives (see Chapter 6). He should be of a prime
age (not too young, not too old), for he will be expected to already have
gained fame on the battlefield and to lead strenuous military expeditions in
the future. Indeed, as a rite of passage, a newly chosen ruler was expected to
lead a major military expedition and obtain captives for sacrifice in his coronation. This reinforced his reputation as a warrior and solidified his right
to rule.
Of the imperial Tenochtitlan rulers, all but Axayacatl held the exalted military office of tlacatecatl or tlacochcalcatl prior to their election. These titled positions, along with two others, constituted the ruler’s advisory council.11 An
additional titled personage, cihuacoatl, served as the ruler’s second-in-command.
While the early ruler Acamapichtli reportedly served as cihuacoatl, no other
instance of a cihuacoatl ascending the Tenochtitlan royal reed seat exists.
At bottom line, therefore, a viable candidate for ruler had to be closely
related to the recently deceased ruler, a member of that ruler’s advisory council
(preferably holding one of the highest military titles), and proven in battle.That
still usually left several possible candidates for the position, and so a process of
election came into play. For Tenochtitlan, the electors are variously reported
as consisting of an array of leaders, priests, and commoners, although as the
Empire matured election became more and more concentrated in the hands of
the nobility, including the cihuacoatl and the rulers of the other Triple Alliance
cities. The existing tlatoani was also not shy about voicing his preference for
his successor (Davies 1987: 107–109). Both genealogical continuity and proven
abilities were crucial criteria.

City-States and Imperial Rule

leg itimacy and the bases of power
Rulers attained and solidified their legitimate rights to rule on several levels
beyond the genealogical and personal. These levels tied the rulership to practical, symbolic, and sacred dimensions of the Aztec world.
Practical: Control over Land and Labor
On a practical level, rulers exercised control over the most fundamental
resources, land and labor. Land, particularly agricultural land, provided the basis
for wealth, status, and power in Aztec life. Each altepetl claimed a territory
along with its dynastic rulership. A city-state’s territory served as its patrimonial lands and economic base – it provided its inhabitants with a “home” as
well as necessary sustenance. If well endowed, these lands had the potential to
produce staple surpluses (notably maize), more specialized household resources
(such as fish, flowers, or fibers), and raw materials for at least some utilitarian
and luxury crafts (such as clay for pottery, reeds for mats, or feathers for mosaics). Control of land was in the hands of individual political and social elites, as
well as corporate entities, particularly altepetl and calpolli.
Altepetl lands (altepetlalli) were jealously held, vigorously defended, and painfully relinquished to any conqueror. Land was seemingly always contentious,
an indication of its value. Indeed, in the course of their Basin of Mexico
adventures the Mexica finally settled at Tenochtitlan, knowing full well that
their godly appointed site was on the lands of three well-established citystates: this made them quite nervous, and “therefore they were in great misery”
(Anderson and Schroeder 1997: 105).12 As component districts of city-states,
calpolli also held lands (calpolalli) that were administratively distributed to calpolli
residents. Like everything else in Aztec life, the allocation of these plots adhered
to principles of social hierarchy and political rights: “some people got only one
plot, some several, and calpolli leaders or important nobles might receive many
times an ordinary commoner’s allotment” (Lockhart 1992: 142).
Other (or perhaps the same) lands were identified as temple lands (teotlalli),
military lands (milchimalli), and tribute lands (tequitlalli and tequimilli). These
could be, as James Lockhart (1992: 156) suggests, certain calpolli lands “set aside,
perhaps on an ad hoc, shifting basis, to help meet the needs of worship and
warfare” and, I would add, changing tribute demands. Nonetheless, these designations place the Aztec city-state and its tlatoani squarely in control of local
lands.
Conquest ensured conquerors’ rights over the lands of the vanquished.
Within the Basin of Mexico, actual plots of such conquered lands could be
appropriated by conquering rulers and allocated to deserving individuals or
corporate entities.13 Farther afield in Aztec imperial conquests, this system was
not particularly practical (and the Aztecs were a practical people).Where garrisons were imposed in restless conquered areas (particularly along volatile frontiers), the local population was charged with sustaining the garrisons from their

147

148

Aztec Society and Culture
own productive lands (e.g., see Berdan et al. 1996: 275, 278, 281; Berdan 1996;
Smith 1996b). Similarly, where Aztec governors were installed, the local conquered people were obliged to support their households (e.g., see Durán 1994:
159), and Aztec armies on the march were provisioned by communities along
their routes (e.g., Durán 1994: 351; Berdan et al. 1996: 292; Smith 1996b: 148).
Conquering city-states could therefore distribute the burden of supporting
state institutions and events.
Royal and other noble palaces were endowed with lands to sustain the elevated
lifestyle of their occupants. These lands (variously called tlatocatlalli, tecpantlalli,
pillalli, and tecuhtlalli) were apparently attached to the palaces as private property,
their yields supporting palace needs. High-ranking individuals could augment
those lands through military service; lands conquered by the Triple Alliance (at
least in the Basin of Mexico) were often allocated to the conquering rulers,
participating nobles, and high-achieving warriors of any status, all according to
their positions and accomplishments (see Durán 1994: 96–103, 110, 112–113, 121,
148). In a somewhat different twist, Aztec terms of conquest required the rulers of Tepeacac (beyond the Basin of Mexico, near Tlaxcallan; see Figure 4.12)
to provide lands to whatever outsiders might wish to dwell there (Durán 1994:
159).14 The main point here is that control of conquered lands, whether gained
through nobility status, battlefield prowess, or royal decree, was in the hands of
state-approved individuals empowered by rulers.
Lands by themselves are nice to have, but to make them productive requires
the availability of a knowledgeable, motivated, and energetic labor force. Altepetl
and calpolli lands were cultivated by resident commoners who owed a portion
of their yield to their local ruler. This tax was paid in kind but also was due in
the form of service – some of it by rotation in the royal palace, some of it on
regular or periodic public works. While there were regular tribute and corvée
labor duties, these demands were augmented in times of extraordinary need:
the funeral or coronation of a ruler, initiation or intensification of a major construction project (such as the enlargements to Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor),
cleanup of a failed construction project (such as Ahuitzotl’s notorious flooded
aqueduct), or recovery from a natural or military disaster (such as a flood or
conquest). A declaration of war entailed military service, potentially from all
commoner men who were trained for such an eventuality.
These were the demands on the locals. But in addition, an imperial ruler
customarily levied tribute demands on subject populations – normally in kind
(e.g., as recorded in the Matrícula de Tributos and Codex Mendoza, described
later). Imperial overlords could also command the labor of conquered peoples – apparently at will. Such was the case when Axayacatl demanded that
stone, lime, and sand be brought from several surrounding provinces for the
construction of a large stone platform. The provinces acquiesced. Similarly,
Ahuitzotl “requested” building materials and labor from many provinces for
the construction of his massive waterworks, and the second Motecuhzoma

City-States and Imperial Rule
Case 5.2 How to Move a Rock (Imperial Style)
Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin had a problem. As supreme ruler of a vast empire,
he felt the need to demonstrate his power and glorify his reign. To satisfy this
need, he decided to replace Tenochtitlan’s sacrificial stone (temalacatl) with one
that reflected the growing magnificence of the city.
But how was he to accomplish this? Since no such stone existed naturally on
the Mexica’s small island, Motecuhzoma sent his stonecutters in search of “the
largest and finest stone in all the province,” which they found to the southeast,
in the province of Chalco (Durán 1994: 477). Motecuhzoma obviously felt at
liberty to remove even an enormous embedded rock from one of his conquered provinces.
The rock’s transport to Tenochtitlan was no small feat. First of all, given the
sacred nature of this stone’s destiny, priests were summoned to perform appropriate rituals. Singers, dancers, and jesters provided a lighthearted counterpoint
to the more solemn priestly rituals. Then Motecuhzoma ordered men from six
nearby cities, all just to the south of Tenochtitlan, essentially in the chinampa zone,
to bring ropes and poles to dislodge and move the stone. With each city working as a unit, the laborers struggled but could not budge the enormous rock.
Seeing this, Motecuhzoma “begged” the Texcocan ruler for more men; with
these reinforcements, the rock was moved a short distance. The rock seemed
determined to move no further, and after two frustrating days, Motecuhzoma
summoned Otomí men to come and add to the collective strength.Yet despite
the efforts of priests, entertainers, and this multitude of laborers, the stone not
only sat firm, but now spoke to the assembled, stating its intention to move only
as far as it wished (and ominously proclaiming that it would never enter Tenochtitlan). And so it moved, but then stubbornly stopped again. Motecuhzoma
brought in men from Azcapotzalco as reinforcements, but the rock spoke again,
this time predicting Motecuhzoma’s ultimate fate – the end of “his reign, his
power” (Durán 1994: 479). The rock continued to tease and deceive the laborers until it was pulled onto a bridge specially built for this project, whereupon
it broke the bridge’s beams and crashed into the lake (taking with it many men
who drowned). Divers were unable to locate the rock on the lake bottom, and
it was subsequently found back at its original site. Motecuhzoma seems not to
have been particularly surprised by this, although he was sufficiently unsettled to
consider the need to personally make offerings and sacrifices to the rock.
What does this story tell us about Aztec politics and its relationship with
other aspects of Aztec life?
• Motecuhzoma was willing to make a considerable investment in this project:
an increasing number of laborers, provisions for those workers, the services
of priests and entertainers (probably from Tenochtitlan and some perhaps
from his own household), and handsome compensation for the stoneworkers. That said, the laborers were required to provide their own ropes and
poles. The entire project was highly labor-intensive, reportedly involving
10,000–12,000 laborers (Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 662).
• Motecuhzoma was capable of calling on workers from numerous cities.
He approached each polity differently: he ordered the six chinampa cities, he

149

150

Aztec Society and Culture
begged the Texcocan ruler, he summoned the Otomí, and he requested help
from the Azcapotzalco ruler. He never called on laborers from Chalco.
These approaches reveal the Mexica ruler’s variable political relations with
his neighbors.
• Throughout the rock’s halting progress, priests continually performed rituals
while singers sang, dancers danced, and musicians played their conch shells and
whistles. While the priests sanctified the event and encouraged the stone to
move, the entertainers may have served primarily to motivate the laborers.
• The rock’s resiliency and stubbornness surpassed even that of the great lord
Motecuhzoma, suggesting the inevitability of the prophecy voiced by the
rock. The story highlights the Aztecs’ strong belief in fate, serving as a narrative platform for reinforcing this certainty.

ordered men from several subject city-states to help transport a large rock
from Chalco to Tenochtitlan (Durán 1994: 276–277, 365, 477–480) (Case 5.2).
Refusal was not an option, such was the power of the imperial rulership. The
Mexica conquest of nearby Cuitlahuac required the latter to “furnish maidens
to dance in the feasts to the gods; from now on they would serve the Aztecs in
their public works and in their personal service and would pay any tribute that
would be levied” (Durán 1994: 121).15 The demands did not end there, since
subject city-states in the Basin of Mexico frequently were called upon to join
imperial military campaigns in far distant regions. In these cases, however, the
participants also enjoyed the rewards accompanying conquest: honors, status,
wealth, and sometimes loot.
Lands attached to royal and noble houses and/or appropriated through
conquest were accompanied by the laborers tied to them. The production of
these commoners (usually called mayeques, or “tenants”; see Chapter 6) was
paid as tribute to the local noble rather than to the altepetl or imperial ruler.
Palaces also enjoyed the services of attached artisans. For instance, featherworkers were attached to Motecuhzoma’s palace, creating his “dance array”
and all the fine featherwork he presented as royal gifts to diplomatic visitors
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 91). While these featherworkers were certainly
well compensated, they stand in contrast to those featherworkers who worked
independently, separate from the royal house and perhaps able to work under
fewer constraints (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 91–92). Furthermore, a temple
could receive the labor of male and female penitents from specific city-state
districts for one year; these young people performed menial chores and served
its resident priests (Durán 1971: 81–86).16

Control over Symbols:Wealth and Display
In Aztec society, everyone’s visual presence made a social and political statement. The material and design of a loincloth or tunic, the display of jewelry

City-States and Imperial Rule
and other adornments, the presence or absence of sandals – all of these were
signposts of a person’s social status. These visual indicators were particularly
showy at the highest levels, and every bit of that showiness was laden with
significance.
The ruler himself was distinguished by specific regalia. At his coronation, he
was vested with symbols of his exalted status: a blue cape adorned with turquoise (or designed in a turquoise color); turquoise noseplug, lip plug, and earplugs; decorated sandals; and especially a turquoise diadem (xiuhuitzolli), which
he wore like a crown (Olko 2005: 113–136, 168; López Luján and Olivier 2009;
Olivier and López Luján 2009; Matos Moctezuma 2009).17 On any ordinary
day (if there were such), he would also appear adorned with precious arm
bands, calf bands, and exotic feathers (e.g., Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 44).
He also had at his disposal the finest military regalia when he went to war
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 33–35).
The ruler sat on a woven reed seat, as a throne. The metaphor for rulers
and the power they wielded was in petlatl in icpalli (the woven reed mat, the
woven reed seat). His expansive palace contained his residential apartments, as
well as a multitude of rooms dedicated to the administration of his city-state,
conquest state, or empire: separate courtrooms for nobles and commoners, a
chamber for war councils, large storage rooms, accommodations for dignified
visitors, and rooms for the innumerable palace servants and artisans. Elaborate
gardens – and for Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin’s palace at least, a zoo and an
aviary – completed the ensemble. Not only was the palace comfortable and
ornate, it also buzzed with daily activity and served as a symbol of the tlatoani’s
power and wealth (see also Chapter 3).
All of these symbols were critical in the wielding of Aztec power: they
declared hereditary and military rights and announced a ruler’s ability to exercise power associated with those rights. In Norman Yoffee’s (2005: 40) words,
“In joyfully reaffirming order and legitimacy, rulers and elites use wealth to
counter fragility, especially in celebrations and ceremonies that involve much
of the wider society.” These heavily laden symbols impressed and intimidated
both locals and visitors.

Control over the Sacred World
Politics and religion were tightly intertwined in the Aztec world. A ruler’s very
coronation consisted of a sequence of ritual events, presided over by priests
and accentuating the new ruler’s obligations to the deities. For example, the
new Mexica ruler was dressed in priestly attire, proclaiming his religious roles.
He made godly offerings in a public setting, affirming his ritual roles before
nobles and commoners. His four advisers were also publicly sanctified. They
all fasted, performed autosacrifice, and offered incense to Huitzilopochtli. All
of these priestly activities were carried out by political officials, firmly connecting them to the realm of the sacred (Berdan 2005: 108).

151

152

Aztec Society and Culture
Once he was enthroned, many of the ruler’s primary duties resided in the
religious realm. It was his responsibility to ensure that the deities were properly
revered and recognized in the multitudinous rituals, that the priesthood was
supported, and that the religious infrastructure (including impressive temples
and idols) was maintained at a level commensurate with the prestige of his
city-state (indeed, all of this glorified his rulership). All of these obligations
took a highly visible form. Among other ritual duties, the ruler participated in
human sacrifices on the tops of temples, danced at specific ceremonies dressed
in deity paraphernalia, and along with other rulers led a critical dry-season
pilgrimage in honor of the rain god Tlaloc (López Luján and Olivier 2009;
Townsend 2009b: 137–139). He also took the spontaneous lead in particularly
stressful rituals, such as Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin’s propitiation of a bewildering talking rock (see Case 5.2).
The ruler was bedecked with turquoise adornments, and this was no accident: turquoise was associated with the powerful fire god Xiuhtecuhtli and
bestowed deified attributes on the ruler. The shimmering blue feathers of the
lovely cotinga (xiuhtototl), also part of the ruler’s raiment, enhanced this association with the fire god. During the feast dedicated to Xiuhtecuhtli, god and
ruler were united, as both the deity figure and the dancing ruler shared the same
turquoise adornments. Nor was religious symbolism neglected in the military
arena: the Mexica emperor’s martial regalia were dripping with godly symbolism, particularly that of Xipe Totec (Olko 2005: 134, 153–154, 181, 254–255).
In short, the ruler appeared, to citizen and foreigner alike, as the embodiment of the deities and as the realm’s primary link with the gods. He hefted
a heavy load indeed, but an essential one that contributed significantly to his
legitimacy.

exercising power
Armed with extensive resources, sacred symbols, and a dazzling persona, the ruler
used a variety of devices to exercise and extend his power (or at the very least,
protect his power base against more powerful adversaries). He accomplished
these goals through lavish feasting and gift giving, control of inalienable wealth,
sacred manipulations, diplomatic ventures, and outright military conquests.
Elite feasting involved extravagant displays, demonstrating a ruler’s control
over material resources and restricted symbols. These especially took place
during major secular and sacred events such as a ruler’s coronation or funeral,
the dedication of a temple, or the celebration of a calendrical religious ritual.
These displays invariably involved the flaunting of power and material wealth,
lavish feasting, exorbitant gift giving and receiving, and other demonstrations
of power such as human sacrifice.These were not simple dinner parties; feasting
could last for days (e.g., Durán 1994: 307). They required a substantial material
investment on the part of the ruler-host, who shouldered the costs through
tribute payments, his own palace production, and marketplace exchanges.18

City-States and Imperial Rule
Gift giving at such events, while reciprocal, was not meant to be equivalent: “The lesser lords made gifts to the supreme ruler at certain festivals held
every year; they did this in acknowledgement of their subjugation and vassalage ... the supreme ruler gave to the lesser lords, his vassals, and to the lords of
neighboring towns ... rich cloaks and other presents, according to the quality
of each lord” (Zorita 1994: 188–189). While the giving was uneven, reinforcing the position of the more powerful ruler, it was essential that the preeminent lord observe proper etiquette and provide extravagantly for his guests.
For example, at the 1487 dedication of the Templo Mayor, Ahuitzotl invited
both friends and foes. Upon their arrival, invited visiting lords were offered
“elegant phrases,” water for hand washing, a chocolate drink, flowers, tobacco,
and elegant lodgings. Later on, they were given costly military insignia and
shields, fine clothing, flowers and tobacco, and of course an abundance of food
and drink (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 65; Durán 1994: 331–335). This event
was also laden with intimidation: all guests, whether friends or enemies, were
filled with “bewilderment and fear. They saw that the Aztecs were masters of
their world” (Durán 1994: 336).
A ruler was expected to generously reward his servants, whether ambassadors or stoneworkers, and to bestow gifts on his commoners at specified
ceremonial events (see Chapter 7). At feasts to which he invited foreign rulers
he also offered gifts to “all the noblemen, brave warriors, and lords, and judges,
and rulers of the youth, and all the singers, and all the keepers of the gods, fire
priests, and [other] priests” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 65; see also Durán
1994: 306–307). These considerable levels of conspicuous consumption and
generosity contributed to the solidification of a ruler’s dominance over his
own citizenry (nobles and commoners) and a willingness of those subjects to
continue to serve him: “On account of their hospitality these lords were honored, obeyed, and well served” (Zorita 1994: 184).
The ruler also bolstered his political position by demonstrating control of
inalienable wealth: land, labor, and certain material symbols of status.While the
criteria for earning these symbols were culturally established, the ruler nonetheless monopolized the right to bestow them. Among the most significant
of these symbols were feathered warrior costumes consisting of a feathered
warrior suit (tlahuiztli) or skirted suit (ehuatl), along with a headdress and/or
back device and a shield (see Chapter 8). They were worn and carried by the
fortunate warriors in future battles, displaying more than the costume itself: the
insignia represented military obligations to the ruler and carried a great deal of
powerful political and religious baggage. They provided a warrior with incentives and motivations, and embodied responsibility and power. Where battles
relied primarily on hand-to-hand combat, they enhanced the Empire’s ability
to win wars. Deserving warriors were publicly and ceremonially awarded their
insignia by the ruler during certain monthly ceremonies, providing sacred validation to both the warriors’ achievements and the exclusive rights of the ruler

153

154

Aztec Society and Culture
to reward them with this religiously imbued attire. Whether in military or
ceremonial contexts, these acts of gift giving highlighted and cemented essential yet uneven links between the ruler and his elite military cadre. The actual
martial devices and insignia served as specific physical authentications of these
ties, responsibilities, power relations, and social distinctions. As with feasting,
this involved a considerable investment on the part of the ruler; in this case, the
gifting targeted warriors and warrior loyalty.
Rulers also wielded their power by associating themselves and their rule
with the sacred world. Arguments can be made that the Mexica rulers consciously aligned themselves and their history with the established cosmic order
(Diel 2008: 49).They did this by manipulating their history to conform to cosmologically significant dates (such as One Flint), thereby communicating “the
legitimacy and sacred nature of their rule” and “to show their rule as divinely
sanctioned” (Diel 2008: 26–27). They also recast history (as did Itzcoatl in
burning books predating his reign)19 and even adjusted calendrical events
themselves. The most significant of these changes was effected by the second
Motecuhzoma, who postponed the traditional date of the New Fire ceremony
(dealing with nothing less than the destruction of the world; see Chapter 7)
from One Rabbit to Two Reed, either to avoid an unlucky Rabbit year or to
overtly express his power (Diel 2008: 37).
Diplomacy was yet another avenue available to rulers in their exercise of
power. Rulers wielded power through negotiations as much as conquests, fitting the approach to the situation. One such avenue was marriage: rulers were
fond of exercising power over one another, and the place of a ruler in city-state
and imperial hierarchies was overtly exhibited in elite marriage arrangements.
It was expected that a higher-ranking ruler would offer a daughter in marriage to a lower-ranking ruler.These marriages provided political alliances, but
the alliances contained clearly understood dominant/subordinate subtexts. On
another plane, royal women sent to subordinate rulers as wives served as political agents: “with loyalties tied to her father over her husband, this royal wife
was both spy and military agent” (Diel 2007: 269). Rejection or maltreatment
of such a wife signified a serious break in political relations and a provocation of war. A different diplomatic context harnessed trade as the medium: in
far-distant regions, undoubtedly too expensive to consider conquering, the
Mexica ruler sent professional merchants as his envoys – exchanges of material goods provided the ruler with tropical luxuries and maintained amiable
relations with these distant polities. Rulers also expressed diplomacy (sometimes) by accepting immigrants and refugees.The Mexica ruler Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin even welcomed refugees from Huexotzinco, traditionally an
enemy, and allowed them to stay in Tenochtitlan until unrest in their homeland
subsided (Durán 1994: 446–451).This particular event, strange at first blush, was
manipulated by the Aztecs: the Huexotzincas had had a falling out with their

City-States and Imperial Rule
Tlaxcallan allies, and the Aztecs saw an opportunity to gain a military advantage over the Tlaxcallans.
The Triple Alliance rulers, especially the Mexica tlatoque, used all of these
devices, including outright military conquest, to not only control neighboring
polities, but also extend their dominion to the far reaches of their known world.
POLITICAL DYNAMICS: BUILDING AN EMPIRE

The Triple Alliance Empire is set apart from other conquest states largely by virtue of its immense territorial and population size. Sanders (2008: 69) estimates
that at its height the Empire encompassed more than 400 polities, 5–6 million
people, and 77, 220 square miles (approximately 200,000 square kilometers).20
How was this far-reaching and diverse domain achieved and administered?

Warfare and Conquest
goals of warfare and expansion
Several forces motivated the Aztecs’ persistent imperial moves. In the first
place, conquest states were nothing new in Mesoamerica. The Aztecs drew on
mythical underpinnings (such as legendary Tula) and their own historic traditions (as underlings to powerful Azcapotzalco) in framing their own imperial
destiny. The precedents and procedures were already there. City-states were
constantly jockeying with one another, each trying to gain dominance over
others. In this political climate, rulers had reputations to uphold and dynasties
to preserve and glorify.The Mexica were no different and by 1428 were poised
to compete at an exceptional level. Indeed, their histories repeatedly insist
on their divinely inspired destiny to rule their known world; this gave them
not only motivation, but also a great deal of confidence. Once set in motion,
continuing conquests became imperative. If the Aztecs showed any weakness
and did not ceaselessly demonstrate to their conquered subjects their ability
to dominate them, rebellion would become a serious problem. Rebellions
occurred frequently enough in any event (Berdan 2011b).
Second, as already mentioned, rulers and other nobles depended on lavish
and boastful displays to continually advertise and thus visibly solidify their
power. Since rulers competed with one another through extravagant feasts
and other spectacles, they needed authoritative and reliable control over material wealth. Conquest and tribute were among the most dependable means of
ensuring that flow of wealth to their coffers. By 1519 the elite’s need for wealth,
and its exhibition, was escalating.
Third, gods needed to be nourished, and most of that responsibility ultimately fell to the state. Religious rituals required opulent offerings and human
sacrifices.These were provided largely through state edict and tribute payments

155

156

Aztec Society and Culture
designated for religious maintenance and ritual performances, although most
of this wealth for the gods fell outside of the regular state tribute payments as
recorded in the Matrícula de Tributos (as described later). It has been estimated
that approximately 80 percent of the materials and artifacts in the numerous
offerings around Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor originated outside the Basin
of Mexico, but still within Aztec hegemony (Matos Moctezuma 1988: 88–91;
López Luján 2005: 99–105).21 Materials coincident with Aztec tribute receipts
include copal; greenstone beads; turquoise masks, mosaics, and beads; lip plugs;
copper bells; Spondylus shells; rubber; and eagles (López Luján 2005: 99–105).
Far more common were diverse materials and objects not found on the standard tribute lists, including marine sands, corals, turtle shells, alligator skulls,
shark teeth, pumas, rattlesnakes, charcoal, sacrificial knives, earplugs, miniatures,
and antiques (López Luján 2005). A particularly high proportion of the materials were animal. Among these, marine fauna predominated, deriving from
both Pacific and Atlantic coasts (López Luján 2005: 101–102). Only a very few
animals appear on the imperial tribute tallies: in addition to the eagles and
Spondylus shells of the Matrícula de Tributos, Durán (1994: 204–205) mentions
various shells, turtles, and quail. Additional sources identify seashells, fish, shellfish, and alligator teeth from tributary provinces and client states situated on
both coasts (see Berdan et al. 1996: 278, 286). Other objects, for example stone
masks from Mezcala (in present-day Guerrero), were manufactured in that
distant area and brought to Tenochtitlan. We do not know the specific mechanisms by which so many of these materials and objects were obtained and distributed for religious use, but it seems unlikely that distant subjects voluntarily
and willingly offered up these objects for burial to a god in a distant city-state,
even if one of those gods was the omnipresent Tlaloc (see Chapter 7). These
materials and goods may have been acquired through special-purpose tribute
(as described later) and the ever-active commercial arteries (Velázquez Castro
1999: 23–25; López Luján 2005: 77–78). The fact that the vast majority of the
earlier marine deposits (pre-Ahuitzotl) derived from the Atlantic coast, and
the later ones (beginning with Ahuitzotl’s reign) were Pacific coast species,
suggests that there was a significant relationship between the deposits and the
establishment of imperial conquests and client states. Imperial control over
Pacific coastal regions was a particular achievement of Ahuitzotl.
However these materials were obtained, it does appear that the religious
world was keeping abreast of the political world in terms of consumption.
There was a definite increase in the quantity of materials deposited in the
Templo Mayor offerings over time (López Luján 2005: 105).
Militarism had a long history in Mesoamerica, and the Mexica were preeminently warriors. From their first arrival in the Basin of Mexico, they were
enlisted as mercenaries in the interminable wars among competing city-states.
They earned reputations as courageous and unrelenting warriors, reputations
that would serve them well as they struck fear and trepidation in the hearts of

City-States and Imperial Rule

Figure 5.3. Twelve conquests of Axayacatl as depicted in the Codex Mendoza. (From
Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 10r.)

their military targets. In a world of largely hand-to-hand combat, this psychological edge was a significant advantage.
Aside from tradition, the Mexica, their neighbors, and more distant polities engaged in warfare for two primary reasons: the acquisition of captives
for sacrifice to the gods and the conquest of city-states to control their
material wealth through tribute. Battlefield tactics and rules were geared

157

158

Aztec Society and Culture
toward these goals. Capturing an enemy was more highly valued than killing him. The captive’s later sacrifice pleased the gods, provided spectacular
ceremonial and political evidence of the victor’s dominance, and endowed
the captor with renown and visible symbols of his achievement (see Case
8.1). This does not mean that battlefield casualties were nonexistent; if the
sources are to be believed, thousands perished on the Late Postclassic battlefields.22 Each side was determined to win, despite the lure of captured
enemies. And winning itself brought great rewards: initially, loot for the successful warriors, then rich gifts for the victorious ruler, followed by negotiated tribute on a year-after-year basis. Conquering a city-state sometimes
required a siege, sometimes a hard-fought battle outside the city itself. In
either case, the attackers’ immediate objectives were clear: to appropriate
the city’s marketplace and to destroy its temple. If the city’s main temple
was overwhelmed, it was burned. The defenders lost heart, as their god had
clearly been defeated by another, more powerful deity. It comes as no surprise that the symbol of conquest was a burning temple: victory in symbol
and defeat in fact (Figure 5.3).
Some wars were explicitly engaged by the Mexica to acquire captives for
sacrifice and to train warriors in battle. These so-called flowery wars were
conducted primarily with the constellation of enemies to the east: Tlaxcallan,
Huexotzinco, Cholula, and Tliliuhquitepec. These periodic encounters appear
to have been ritually staged battles without conclusion; while one side or the
other would claim a victory based on the number of captives, no actual conquest ensued and the armies returned home without material booty or tribute. The benefit, according to the Mexica, lay in the acquisition of captives
and the training afforded young warriors in an arena fairly close to home.
Despite the “flowery war” posture, it is more likely that the Aztecs were engaging the Tlaxcallan confederacy in earnest, with conquest in mind. By 1519
the Tlaxcallans were surrounded by Aztec provinces and were struggling to
maintain their essential trade routes. Yet the Tlaxcallans continued to put up
fierce resistance, “won” as often as not, and were still independent when the
Spaniards arrived (Fargher et al. 2010). This was to be a key factor in the ultimate fall of Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin.

justifying, mobilizing, and financing wars
It was not difficult to find politically acceptable reasons to go to war. Rulers
were sensitive to any real or imagined affront, providing sufficient and convenient excuses to mobilize an army.23 In some cases, excuses were constructed
to legitimize a war of conquest.
Some affronts involved attacks on Aztecs themselves. One of these was quite
personal: Moquihuix, ruler of Tlatelolco, openly maltreated and demeaned his
wife, a sister of the Tenochtitlan ruler Axayacatl.This prompted quick and violent
reprisals from Axayacatl in 1473, resulting in Moquihuix’s death and Tlatelolco’s

City-States and Imperial Rule
conquest (Anderson and Schroeder 1997: 136–141). Other attacks on Mexica and
their allies were more general: emissaries were killed in foreign lands, and pochteca
were prevented from trading and even robbed and killed (e.g., Durán 1994: 106,
223, 349, 350, 409, 442; Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folio 66r). Since pochteca
were forever on the road and known to be on state as well as personal business,
their assassinations were especially frequent provocations of war.
Some areas, already conquered, were suspected of being restless or in a state
of outright rebellion (e.g., Durán 1994: 315, 323–324, 399). Intelligence on
these polities was most likely conveyed to the Aztec rulers by their pochteca
and oztomeca; it is perfectly understandable why these merchants were so often
assaulted on their journeys. The Aztecs were duty-bound to put down rebellions quickly; inaction would have suggested weakness and would have opened
the door to even more rebellions.24 The Aztecs were also obligated to support their own conquered polities against aggression by their unconquered
neighbors. Thus complaints by some of these subjects led to conquests of
their neighbors (e.g., Durán 1994: 263, 264, 374).
One of the most direct ways to instigate a war was to ask a “favor” of an
unconquered area: the Mexica asked Xochimilco for stone and wood, Toluca
for wood, and Quetzaltepec and Tototepec for fine lapidary sand (Durán 1994:
105, 264, 417). All of these requests carried an underlying message, one of subservience, and were thinly disguised ploys to initiate military aggression. In
each of these cases the unconquered polities refused (fully understanding the
message). Warfare and conquest followed.
Some justifications for military reprisals were more subtle: a ruler who
refused an invitation to an imperial feast or ceremony conveyed a serious insult
to his host – and sufficient reason for military aggression (e.g., Durán 1994:
341). And boredom and inaction also played a role: if too long a time passed
without military action, one ruler at least went seeking it, stating the need to
keep his army sharp (e.g., Durán 1994: 425).
One reason wars had to be legitimized was that the Mexica ruler needed
support from his military orders and his allies. Mobilizing for war took place
on an event-by-event basis; the Aztecs had no standing army. When Axayacatl
decided to mount an offensive against Tollocan, he called a council of war with
his military leaders and ordered them to prepare men and provisions for war.
He then sent envoys to the kings of Texcoco and Tlacopan, who agreed to join
the campaign (Durán 1994: 265–266). Ahuitzotl’s offense against Tecuantepec
entailed an agreement by all three Triple Alliance rulers, who sent envoys to
other Basin of Mexico allied city-states that also agreed to join the war. This
vast army gained more warriors (and provisions) along the way, at Aztec-held
Huaxacac. Later, Ahuitzotl’s move against Xoconochco, the most distant Aztec
target, also involved agreements from rulers of nearby provinces to add their
forces to the expedition (Durán 1994: 350–352, 375). One of the keys to the
Aztecs’ success (although they also suffered failures) lay in their ability to

159

160

Aztec Society and Culture
mobilize extraordinarily large military forces; in a world of largely hand-tohand combat, numbers were critical. Rulers and warriors from the several
already conquered Basin of Mexico city-states were eager to participate in
these wars given the lure of immediate loot and more sustained tribute payments. Warfare was lucrative to the victors.
Training and organization also played important roles in successful military operations. The many urban telpochcalli (young men’s houses, or schools
for male youth) in the Basin of Mexico provided basic martial training to all
young men. Youths were also taken to wars, usually carrying the equipment
of more seasoned warriors, to observe and get a firsthand sense of actual battlefield contests. Battles themselves were fierce, furious, and noisy. Projectiles
from bows, atlatl, and slingshots pierced the air, obsidian-studded clubs and
spears battered and penetrated armor and flesh, and colorful banners moved
about identifying military divisions. Determined warriors, some wearing
elaborately feathered insignia, advanced ferociously on one another. Captives
were dragged from the battlefield to be later sacrificed, and the courageous
warriors winning those captives were rewarded with insignia declaring their
achievements. The whole affair must have been an awesome spectacle, and
better for a young, future warrior to observe all this from a distance before
participating in it.
Each ruler recruited his own army, provided at least some of the necessary
weaponry for his warriors, and imparted an inspirational speech in the group’s
own language before battle (Durán 1994: 375–378, 410). On the road to their
destination, each of the allied contingents traveled separately, each set up its
own camp, and each advanced on the battlefield as a unit (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 8, 52).
These incessant and in many cases distant wars were costly. Expenses
included weaponry, provisions, rewards, and the maintenance of garrisons in
restless regions. Documentary sources indicate that some martial support was
provided by rulers, market vendors, en route communities, subject communities, entrepreneurs, and the warriors themselves (food and perhaps repairs to
their own equipment; see Durán 1994: 167). In preparing for war, some of
the weaponry and insignia were provided by the ruler (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 8, 51–52), although it is not clear if all warriors, especially commoners,
received this largesse. Nobles would have been provided with cotton armor25
and feathered insignia, but unrenowned commoner warriors may have entered
battle with little protection.26 The ruler himself went in style, wearing exquisite
adornments of feathers, gold, and precious stones (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
8, 33–35). Food for the army was reportedly supplied by Tlatelolco market
food vendors, who provided “biscuits, and finely ground dried maize and chia
seeds, and dried maize dough, and dried, lime-treaded maize dough” (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 8, 69). But a warrior might also carry toasted maize kernels,
maize flour, bean flour, toasted tortillas, sunbaked tamales, chiles, and ground

City-States and Imperial Rule
cacao, some provided by the rulers’ storehouses and some furnished by the
warrior himself (Durán 1994: 350).
In distant campaigns, supplies would have run low, and subjects and allies
along the route were expected to support the needy army. They provided
food, additional warriors, porters, and guides (e.g., Durán 1994: 351, 352, 377;
Berdan et al. 1996: 267, 282, 284, 290, 292). In some especially unstable conquered and client areas, the Aztec conquerors deemed it useful to install garrisons.These also needed to be provisioned, usually by resident subject peoples
(see Berdan et al. 1996: 275–276, 280–283, 285–286). Expenses also included
postwar rewards of military insignia and specially decorated cloaks to warriors
who distinguished themselves in the battle (see Chapters 6 and 8). These were
supplied from the ruler’s storehouses.
This leads us to the question of how these rulers stocked and replenished
their storehouses to equip and reward officers and warriors on a repeated basis.
To what extent were these stores based on tribute collected from already conquered polities? In the bigger picture, how much did earlier military successes
support and allow future ones?
Rulers supplied their military contingents (the nobles, at least) with cotton armor, feathered insignia, and weapons. Some of these are found on the
annual tribute rolls (Matrícula de Tributos and Codex Mendoza): several styles of
insignia that were awarded to warriors capturing specific numbers of enemies
(see Chapter 8), raw cotton that could be used for fabricating armor, and very
little weaponry (canes for arrows provided by Tepeacac province). No cotton
armor itself was recorded on these tallies, and no other weaponry (not even
the multipurpose obsidian). However, other sources do mention payment of
weaponry. For example, Durán mentions “arrows, shields, swords, slings, as
well as special shields made just for the lords” among the regular tribute to be
paid by Tlatelolco, as well as cotton armor, shields, bows and arrows, maguey
fiber slings and stone shot, blades of white stone or obsidian, and flints for
arrows and darts provided by other conquered polities on regular schedules
and special occasions (1994: 412, 205–206, 261, 303, 318, 473). Other documents mention maguey shields, bows and arrows, cane shields and other cane
weaponry, blades for lances, and raw cotton for armor among tribute payments (Berdan 1996: 127–129; Smith 1996b: 148). Amounts are not specified,
so it is not known if these payments were sufficient to provision the large
armies that were mobilized frequently. To some extent, weapon manufacture
may have been each warrior’s responsibility; the materials were available in
the marketplaces, and Durán (1994: 167) does relate a speech by the first
Motecuhzoma in which that ruler admonishes his warriors to prepare their
swords, sharpen their blades, repair their shields, and straighten their canes and
reeds for arrows and darts. Unfortunately, we lack sufficient numerical data to
determine the relative proportions of state versus individual contributions to
military support.

161

162

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 5.4. Imperial tribute from the rich province of Tepequacuilco. (From Berdan
and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 37r.)

tribute and imperial finance
Tribute was the most political of the economic means of moving goods about.
It was essentially a one-way process entailing the transfer of raw materials
and manufactured goods from conquered peoples to their overlords. Some of

City-States and Imperial Rule
these raw materials and manufactured objects were utilitarian, others luxurious. Tribute levies took a variety of forms: calendrically scheduled payments
of specified goods, situational levies focused on supporting special events or
provisioning an imperial or royal need (such as a kingly coronation or ritual
event, or the acquisition and transport of materials for a construction project),
service in the royal palace and in temples, and military service. While occasionally a city was razed and depopulated following conquest, this was unusual
and counterproductive to the economic goals of the conquerors. A vanquished
but potentially productive population provided its conquerors with loot, captive warriors for sacrifice, immediate gifts, and agreements to pay negotiated
tributes on a specified schedule or whenever demanded.
Terminological issues have recently been raised about the use of the word
“tribute” for these demands. For instance, Daniel Tarschys focuses on scheduling, preferring the word “tax” for predictable, calendrical demands and
reserving the term “tribute” for relatively unpredictable and irregular payments from subjected peoples involving “more personal and emotional” ties
(1988: 3). Other distinctions between tribute and taxes focus on hierarchical
political relationships: taxes are demanded of a citizenry by its own polity,
while tribute entails payments demanded of conquered peoples (Mair 1977:
98; Berdan 2001: 262).With reference to the Aztec tribute system, where both
regular and irregular payments served to finance imperial and royal goals (and
where both types of payments were rendered by the same subject peoples),
I find the political criterion more useful than the scheduling one. Focusing
on these political relationships also highlights the symbolic nature of tribute;
each payment, arriving with great pageantry in the imperial cities, symbolically reaffirmed dominant–subordinate relationships. In essence, tribute constitutes obligatory payments from conquered to conqueror, in whatever form
and on whatever schedule.
The Empire extracted tribute from its conquered peoples on a polity-bypolity basis, resulting in a staggering mosaic of tribute payments (Figure 5.4).
Despite its diversity, some interesting patterns can be detected in this system along ecological, economic, geographic, political, ritual, and historical
dimensions.
With reference to ecology and economy, tribute assessments were essentially
based on materials and goods readily available to the conquered peoples (e.g.,
Zorita 1994: 186–187). In most cases these coincided with local raw materials and traditional skills, and reflected local ecology: shells arrived from the
coasts, shimmering feathers from the tropics, woods from forested highlands,
cotton from the lowlands, jaguar skins from jaguar habitats, and cochineal
from areas of intense cochineal production. Yet, as with other things in the
Aztec world, this was neither neat nor simple. Some provinces paid tribute in
goods not locally produced. These included greenstones and turquoise from
Tochpan; greenstones from Tochtepec; greenstones, amber, and quetzal feathers

163

164

Aztec Society and Culture
from Cuetlaxtlan (all three provinces situated along the Gulf coast); amber
from Pacific coastal Xoconochco; cotton cloth from highland provinces that
could not grow cotton; and warrior costumes constructed with colorful tropical feathers, also paid by highland provinces (see Gasco and Voorhies 1989:
68–69; Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. II, 114, 118, 124, 133). These goods must
have been abundantly and visibly present in these areas when they were conquered, sufficiently so that the conquerors could rely on their new subjects to
deliver them in regular and sustained tribute payments. It is likely that these
goods were customary commercial commodities in these provinces, carried
by merchants and traded in markets; in the examples just given, Xoconochco,
Tochtepec, and Tochpan were especially active trading venues (see Chapter 4).
Thus established trade and market activities fed into tribute demands, and so
to some extent the tribute system relied on sustained mercantile activities.
Likewise, the tribute system supported the continuation of these trading conduits as subjects sought nonlocal materials and objects to fulfill their tribute
obligations. And further, by conquering one area, the Aztecs gained access to
products and goods produced beyond the bounds of their military control: the
Empire’s economic thrall extended well beyond its actual conquests.
Tribute paid as raw materials included staple foodstuffs, cacao, cotton, eagles,
gold dust, turquoise stones, and feathers. At least some of these raw materials
could have served the needs of the imperial ruler’s palatial artisans in their luxury craft productions. However, most tribute was delivered in manufactured or
partially manufactured form, such as woven clothing, reed mats and seats, paper,
decorated gourd bowls, amber lip plugs, greenstone beads, and feathered warrior costumes and shields. This imposition of tribute in manufactured objects
would have stimulated craft production in conquered areas of the Empire.
Some tribute payments conformed to geographic constraints and patterns,
imposed by both natural and cultural conditions. One such pattern relates
to the Mesoamerican transportation system. All transport being on foot or
canoe, distance and terrain played significant roles in the choices of goods
demanded in tribute. With one exception,27 heavy and bulky foodstuffs were
delivered by provinces close to Tenochtitlan, even though every province in
the Empire produced these staples and was capable of delivering them in tribute. Distance also played a role in labor tribute: provinces close to the imperial
capitals (mostly in the Basin of Mexico) were more often called on for labor
on special projects (see Case 5.2) than more distant provinces, which paid their
tribute in raw materials and manufactured goods, and occasionally battlefield
captives.28 Exceptionally, Texcoco demanded palace and temple service, on a
rotating basis, from both nearby and distant city-states (for analyses of this system see Douglas 2010: 69–78; Offner 1983: 97–114). In a rather different case,
the most distant province of Xoconochco delivered all of its tribute twice a
year, a regularity perhaps instituted to accommodate long-distance transportation costs. These costs would have pertained especially to cacao: Gasco (n.d.)

City-States and Imperial Rule
estimates that the cacao tribute delivered from Xoconochco to Tenochtitlan
amounted to 5 metric tons annually, which necessitated a daunting physical
and logistic effort.
Politics and religion went hand in hand in Aztec life, and this can be seen
in the scheduling and use of tribute. Much tribute arrived in the imperial
capitals in regularly scheduled payments tied to the monthly calendar (see
Chapter 7). Calendrical periods of tribute collection in the Matrícula de Tributos
and Codex Mendoza were annual, semiannual, and every eighty days (or quarterly).29 Periods for some goods were predictable: warrior costumes and foodstuffs were delivered annually, and clothing semiannually.30 Other goods and
products followed no particular pattern. A separate imperial tribute document
indicates that conquered peoples delivered rich clothing, warriors’ costumes,
fine jewelry, feathers, and slaves for the celebration of five major Aztec ceremonies (Scholes and Adams 1957).
The scheduled payments included utilitarian and luxury materials and
goods. Among the utilitarian goods were staple foodstuffs, other foodstuffs such
as chiles and honey, salt, maguey fiber clothing, lime, firewood, and wooden
planks, beams, and carrying frames. Luxuries included enormous quantities of
decorated cotton clothing,31 cacao, wild animal pelts, gold dust and ornaments,
turquoise stones and masks, tropical feathers, and feathered warriors’ costumes,
shields, and headgear. Other goods included raw cotton, plain cotton clothing, dyes, copal incense, balls of rubber, and shells. Scheduled tribute payments
were collected by imperial tribute collectors in each province (calpixque; sing.
calpixqui) and brought to the petlacalco, or ruler’s storehouse in Tenochtitlan.32
Special occasions, such as the coronation or funeral of a ruler or the dedication of a major temple, and the idiosyncratic needs of a ruler all had political
and religious overtones and prompted tribute payments in goods or service (or
both). These were paid above and beyond the scheduled demands and were
geared toward satisfying the needs of the moment. For instance, Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin’s coronation brought into Tenochtitlan wave after wave of burden
bearers from all corners of the Empire:33 reportedly, every day a thousand
burden bearers carried loads of animals and birds for food, chiles, seeds, cacao,
fish, and fruit, all to contribute to the new ruler’s extravagant feasting (Durán
1994: 406). The dedication of the Templo Mayor in 1487 under Ahuitzotl was
a particularly notable occasion for the delivery of special tributes. Conquered
peoples from throughout the Empire delivered quantities of gold, jewels, ornaments, precious stones and feathers, men’s and women’s clothing, cacao, chiles,
seeds, fruit, game, and birds for the solemn and opulent festivities (Durán
1994: 335–336).While these goods contributed substantially to the celebrations
themselves, their dramatic delivery also had a symbolic impact: enemy guests
invited to the dedication,“seeing such wealth and opulence and such authority
and power, were filled with terror” (Durán 1994: 336). Religion and politics
were unabashedly intertwined.

165

166

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 5.3 Imperial Tribute Payments:The Province of Tochpan
Tochpan was one of thirty-eight tributary provinces of the Aztec Empire, located in
the Empire’s northeast corner (see Figure 5.5).A close look at this province reveals a
great deal about imperial expansion: conflicting claims to conquest, changes in tribute demands over time, and reasons behind specific types of tribute assessments.
The most enigmatic issue involves Tochpan’s muddy conquest history. The
conquest of Tochpan itself, as the major polity in this province, was claimed
variously by Axayacatl (in the Codex Mendoza), Tizoc (on his famous carved
stone), and Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina (in Durán’s history). Although rebellions are not recorded for this city-state, perhaps it was restless and each ruler
found the need to remind Tochpan of its subservient status. More likely, one or
more of these records may have been inflated: Tochpan was a prize, and claiming its conquest heaped fame and glory upon its conqueror. To complicate
matters, the Texcocan-biased chronicler Alva Ixtlilxochitl attributed Tochpan’s
conquest to the Texcocan ruler Nezahualcoyotl (r. 1418–1472). Other sources
suggest that the conquest was a Triple Alliance affair, the province’s tribute
being divided among the three imperial capitals. However Tochpan and its
neighbors were actually subdued, their defeat occurred during the middle of
the fifteenth century. Shortly before the Spanish arrival, the towns grouped
together as an imperial province also included Papantla, quite a bit to the south
and not conquered until the sixteenth-century reign of Motechuzoma Xocoyotzin.The composition of provinces would have looked different over time; in
this case, a late conquest was tagged onto an existing administrative unit.
We are fortunate in having a variety of historical records for this region. In
particular, documents tell us about the tribute demanded of Tochpan upon its
conquest and then its tribute assessments approximately half a century later
(especially in the Matrícula de Tributos and Codex Mendoza tribute tallies; Figure
C5.3). Immediately following its conquest, Tochpan’s annual tribute consisted
heavily of textiles (a situation also found in other conquered provinces in the few
cases where we have similar documentation). For both the Mexica (Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina) and the Texcocan (Nezahualcoyotl) claims, highly decorated textiles dominated the list of demands. The emphasis on textiles makes
demographic sense: warfare and battlefield captures would have significantly
depleted the male segment of the population, leaving a disproportionate number of women to carry the tribute burden: weaving was women’s work. Early
Mexica demands also included colorful exotic feathers, yellow dyes, fruits, and
a variety of chiles. Other valuables and products were apparently available in
Tochpan at the time of its conquest, since the lords of that land offered precious
gifts to stop their slaughter and then presented more gifts to their conquerors
before their departure: seafood, honey, cacao, white feathers, paper, gold, and
jewels in addition to those items appearing on their annual tribute tally.
There were both continuities and changes in tribute demands over the next
half-century. A great deal of decorated clothing (some perhaps of different styles)
along with one variety of chile is also found on the later lists, although we can only
infer that they were required consistently year after year between the mid-fifteenth
and early sixteenth centuries. The tropical feathers, yellow dye, and fruits have

City-States and Imperial Rule

Figure C5.3. Imperial tribute from the Gulf coast province of Tochpan. (From

Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 52r.)
been removed from the list and replaced by a wider variety of goods: feathered
warrior costumes, small white feathers (down), greenstone and turquoise beads,
and turquoise mosaics. As the Empire expanded into more distant regions, tropical
feathers became available from other conquests, as did the yellow dye. After half
a century, the region’s gender balance may have been at least somewhat restored,
and more manufactures and mercantile goods appear on the later list.
A province was assessed with respect to materials readily available to it, and
in some ways Tochpan’s tribute requirements are easily anticipated; in others,
unexpected. Clothing, chiles, and feather down as well as feathered warrior

167

168

Aztec Society and Culture
costumes are anticipated targets for tribute payments. Cotton was grown abundantly, and the region was well known for its exquisitely woven textiles. Locally
available precious feathers were embedded in the two sets of warrior insignia. Still, it is somewhat surprising that the feathers themselves have disappeared from the earlier demands – at a time when precious feathers would have
been in high demand by an ostentatious Aztec elite. There are some possible
explanations for this. First, Tochpan had a well-known market, and professional
merchants may have moved sufficient quantities of feathers to the eager Aztec
consumers. Second, these types of feathers were paid by other provinces, and
perhaps the conquerors preferred to emphasize precious stones from this province: no province paid everything it possibly could, and the Empire was craftily selective. A third possibility was that the bird population of this area was
becoming diminished: this was actually the northern habitat fringe for most
of these tropical varieties. Especially surprising are the greenstone beads and
turquoise beads and mosaics. Neither stone was native to this region, turquoise
probably arriving from the north, greenstone from the south. Yet they must
have been conspicuously available for the Aztecs to require them as annual tribute payments. It is most likely that they were traded extensively in Tochpan’s
market, the ever-observant pochteca reporting their abundance to their kings.

Tribute was also rendered in the form of service. Some of these obligations
were fulfilled on a perpetual basis, as in the case of mayeque, or serf-like commoners who provided field labor and household service to a specific noble
and his palace (see Chapter 6). Nobles acquired these labor rights as partial
compensation for their political positions and responsibilities. Their attached
commoners were typically exempt from imperial tribute. Some other services
were periodic, such as those provided by conquered city-states to the Texcocan
palace and temples on a rotating basis, as mentioned earlier. Still others were
situational: a large construction project (such as Ahuitzotl’s unfortunately failed
aqueduct) or the moving of an enormous rock (see Case 5.2) prompted a call for
a large number of laborers, and rulers did not hesitate to make those demands.
Finally, tribute assessments reflected changing conditions in the provinces
and at home. Immediately following a war, the male component of the conquered population was disproportionately reduced due to battlefield casualties
and captures. It is, then, no surprise that early tribute demands weighed heavily
on the fruits of women’s work, especially woven cloth (see Case 5.3). As time
went on and the gender balance of the city-state began to be restored, tribute
payments generally became more diversified. In another vein, tribute assessments reflected the changing needs of the imperial political and social order. A
growing nobility (see Chapter 6) required more and more status-linked luxuries: rulers and high-ranking nobles needed to grace their aristocratic persons,
adorn their aristocratic palaces, dine in aristocratic ways, and feast their neighbors in appropriately aristocratic styles. It was convenient that as the Empire

City-States and Imperial Rule
expanded geographically, it moved out of the highlands into more temperate
and tropical zones, lands offering luxuries ranging from cotton and cacao to
precious stones and shimmering feathers.
Our available documentation emphasizes the imperial perspective. But
what about those who paid the tributes? Smith and Heath-Smith (1994)
consider that, following Aztec conquests in Morelos, “increased tribute
at the imperial and regional and state levels probably contributed to the
observed changes in agricultural production [increased], textile manufacture [increased], standard of living [lowered], and elite conditions.”34 Smith
(1994a: 336) further suggests that the actual demands of Aztec imperial, conquest state, and city-state tribute demands in Morelos, at least in the realm of
textiles, may have been as little as three cotton cloaks per household annually.
This relatively low estimated demand is paralleled by Gasco’s (n.d.) calculations of cacao yields in distant Xoconochco. On the basis of current levels
of production, she suggests that the 5 metric tons of cacao paid annually in
tribute to Tenochtitlan could have been produced on slightly less than 17
hectares. We have no figures on the total amount of land dedicated in this
region to cacao production in Aztec times. However, somewhat more than
12,000 hectares are applied to cacao cultivation today – this even in the face
of recent declining production (Gasco in press). This does not appear to be
an especially burdensome imposition. In another instance, after their conquest by the Aztecs, the people of Chalco increased their cotton fiber production, perhaps in response to imperial tribute demands (Hodge 1998: 211).
Overall, these indications are suggestive of imperial impact, but it remains
undetermined if similar patterns pertained to other tribute goods and to
other regions of the Empire.
Rulers treated tributes as their own royal property, to be used and distributed
by them.While this allowed these august persons considerable discretion, it also
required that they conform to established cultural expectations. Generosity
was one such expectation: the ruler distributed subsistence goods to commoners at specific ceremonies, allocated goods to support temples and priests,
gave expensive gifts and held lavish feasts for high-ranking friends and foes,
properly rewarded his valiant warriors, supported widows and orphans, generously compensated his artisans, and warehoused large quantities of foodstuffs
against possible famine.35 Rulers did not stint in their rewards. Communities
and officials who contributed to rebuilding Tenochtitlan noble houses following a flood were granted clothing, cacao, chiles, beans, and slaves (Durán 1994:
373). Merchants returning from a successful military/commercial venture were
given beautifully decorated capes, rabbit-fur capes, loincloths, and foodstuffs
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 5–6). In addition to these types of allocations,
vast quantities of goods were required to support the enormous state bureaucracy and the ruler’s extensive palatial needs.Virtually all of the goods used for
these many purposes are recorded as tribute or “gift” payments, whether by

169

170

Aztec Society and Culture
tributary or strategic provinces and whether through scheduled or situational
levies. These payments were directly related to various strategies used by the
Aztecs in the formation of their Empire.

Imperial and Provincial Strategies
The Empire was constructed on the well-established concept of city-state, and
the same devices that city-state rulers used to gain and consolidate power were
extended to more expansive imperial control.The Aztecs built their empire by
implementing a variety of strategies, while at the same time conquered peoples
engaged in coping mechanisms that worked in their own favor.

the perspective of the empire
Under the Empire, rulers were hierarchically related to one another.
Asymmetrical relations among local and/or imperial rulers were established
and reaffirmed by outright military conquest as well as political and diplomatic arrangements, and city-state dynasties continually fluctuated in power
and prestige. In this political environment, the Empire itself achieved its phenomenal growth by pursuing a number of strategies initiated at the imperial
level: economic, political, elite, and frontier (Berdan and Smith 1996).
Imperial Strategies
The “economic strategy” was designed to control essential economic resources
from subject city-states.36 It entailed direct military conquest, resulting in the
acquisition of city-states grouped into tributary provinces (Figure 5.5) that
paid regularly scheduled tributes to the imperial coffers. These provinces provided the backbone of imperial and royal finance, and consisted of city-states
conquered from the Empire’s inception into the second decade of the sixteenth century.
The “political strategy” entailed direct interference with subjected citystate rulerships. While the Empire was generally hegemonic, it did employ
aggressive political measures in city-states that posed real or imagined difficulties for imperial administration. This was the case, for instance, with
Chalco, which was ruled by an imposed military governor (cuauhtlatoani)
from 1464 to 1486, and with Tlatelolco, which was ruled by a cuauhtlatoani
from the time of its conquest by Tenochtitlan in 1473 until the Spanish conquest (Hodge 1996: 33). It is noteworthy that most of the instances of these
impositions occurred within the Basin of Mexico, where the Aztecs had
begun their conquests; there, the imperial powers could ill afford rebellious
rulers so close to their seats of power and therefore sometimes installed their
own, more trustworthy relatives.37 And while conquered city-states close to
the imperial capitals were burdened with sometimes heavy labor demands
(more so than more distant conquered provinces), they also enjoyed rewards

City-States and Imperial Rule
associated with participating in successful wars (such as booty and prestige
goods granted for the capture of enemy warriors). When the call for a distant
war went out, rulers and warriors from these city-states often eagerly volunteered. Within the Basin, therefore, conquered city-states were more tightly
integrated into imperial goals and enterprises than were outlying subjects.
Nonetheless, even though the Empire interfered less in the political affairs of
more distant provinces than in those closer to home, governors, garrisons, or
fortresses were installed in outlying areas that were seen as potentially troublesome (Berdan et al. 1996).
The “elite strategy” was related to the cohesion developed by nobles
throughout the imperial realm and beyond. Marriages among elites were common and were expected to cement political ties among polities and solidify
dominant–subordinate relationships (as described earlier; see also Gutiérrez
2010: 15; Gutiérrez et al. 2009: 53). Frequent feasting and gift giving among
nobles reaffirmed a mutual “eliteness,” regardless of the political agenda and
even though some extravagant displays left both friend and foe thoroughly
intimidated.
The “frontier strategy” involved an overt plan on the part of Aztec rulers to
control distant polities without the expense of a full military conquest; they
achieved this through negotiation rather than outright conquest.These “strategic provinces” (see Figure 5.5), similar to the Roman Empire’s client states (see
Luttwak 1976), were typically located adjacent to hostile borderlands, along
important trade routes, or close to critical resources (see Smith 1996b). They
were clearly subservient to the Empire, yet they rendered “gifts” rather than
tribute and often received gifts in return (although surely there was a fine
line between tribute and gifts, materially and symbolically). Thus Tetela on the
fringe of the eastern Empire offered the imperial rulers war captives from their
constant borderland wars, and received shields and other war materiel in return
(Berdan et al. 1996: 289). It is a good guess that the imperial rulers intended
that these weapons be used by the warriors of Tetela in their endless skirmishes
along their unstable border with Tlaxcallan. In the west, where a string of strategic provinces faced the powerful Tarascan Empire, these provinces held that
tense borderland for the Aztec Empire in a relatively inexpensive fashion.

The Idea of Provinces
Whereas the Aztecs conquered individual city-states, they also created larger
units: provinces. While the term “province” is found in Alva Ixtlilxochitl and
Durán, in large part this notion derives from the Matrícula de Tributos and Codex
Mendoza, fiscal documents that record tribute payments from thirty-eight
provinces, probably around the years 1516–1518 (Berdan 1992).38 In these documents, each province contained from one to twenty-six city-states grouped
together under a “head town.” In some documented cases, these groupings
reflect prior political entities. In Morelos, for example, the conquest state of

171

172

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 5.5. Map of the Aztec Empire in 1519, with tributary and strategic provinces. (Drawing
by Jennifer Berdan, after Berdan et al. 1996: fig. A4–1.)

Cuauhnahuac became the Aztec province of Cuauhnahuac, while the province of Huaxtepec was created by joining together the independent and conquest states of Huaxtepec, Yauhtepec, Tepoztlan, Totolapan, and Yacapitztlan
(Smith 1994: 315). The Gulf coastal gran provincia of Tochpan was reportedly
formed by the conquest of seven existing provincias, altogether encompassing
sixty-eight towns (Alva Ixtlilxochitl 1965: 197). In some cases, provinces grew
and expanded out of geographical convenience; for instance, the late conquest
of Papantla was tagged onto the existing province of Tochpan.
What, then, was the meaning of “province”? On the surface, it referred to
imperial tribute-paying groupings, as well as to regional polities (including
conquest states), from the perspective of the Empire.39 Spatial contiguity (or
at least proximity) appears to have been the basic criterion for grouping citystates into provinces. Where conquest states were involved, a shared history of
pre-Aztec conquests formed groupings under Aztec domination. Established
regional hierarchies are suggested by Molina’s (1970: 99) association of prouincia
(provincia) with uey (huey) altepetl (great city-state), a term akin to huey tlatoani,
referring to a supreme ruler. This usage suggests a hierarchical order of citystates (altepetl) within a “province” (huey altepetl).

City-States and Imperial Rule
Almost all provinces were multicultural, with several languages spoken
within their boundaries. A few, however, such as the strategic Totonac province of Cempoallan and the tributary Mixtec province of Yoaltepec, exhibited ethnic and linguistic uniformity (see Figure 5.5). While this appears to be
rather simple and straightforward, the formation, structure, and administration
of provinces was a more complex and diverse matter. For instance, if these were
tribute-paying entities, one might expect the head town to be the center for
provincial tribute collection. This seems to have been true in most cases, yet
there were exceptions. For instance, the “head town” of Coyolapan province
may have been head town in name only, as one of its constituent city-states,
Huaxacac, was clearly the center of imperial administrative, economic, and
military activities (see Berdan et al. 1996: 281).

the perspective of the conquered
As the Empire pursued its aggressive agenda, those subject to imperial attention also implemented their own coping mechanisms in the face of a greater
military power. The documentary and archaeological records reveal a number
of options selected by conquered polities. These have been described as acquiescence and accommodation, self-interested cooperation, intermarriage and
other exchanges, and rebellion (Berdan 2006b); resistance, appropriation, and
innovation (García Márquez 2005: 141); bolstering, resistance, emulation, and
exodus (Skoglund et al. 2006); and complicity, appropriation, and assimilation
along with bolstering, resistance, emulation, and exodus (Chance and Stark
2007).40 These several strategies overlap and can be generally boiled down to
(1) self-interested cooperation, encompassing bolstering, acquiescence, and
complicity strategies; (2) emulation, appropriation, and assimilation; (3) resistance and rebellion; and (4) exodus.
Self-interested cooperation took many forms and was situationally employed
by conquered peoples to their own advantage (especially by local nobles, even
at the expense of their own commoners). With bolstering, local rulers viewed
incorporation as a reinforcement in their own regional rivalries. In the eastern
Empire, for instance, conquered Quatlatlauhcan called for imperial support in
its incessant wars with neighboring Tepexic (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: book
2, 99). The imperial rulers assented, as the situation afforded them the opportunity to extend their conquests. Some polities that chose acquiescence avoided
the ravages of outright military conquest and could enter the imperial web
as client states. These more relaxed relations with the Empire resulted in less
severe economic obligations. Furthermore, these client rulers “carried with
them the weight of empire when they engaged in the internecine wars common along those volatile borderlands” (Berdan 2006b: 161). With complicity,
the economic and political positions of local rulers could also be bolstered
vis-à-vis their own commoners: Michael Smith (1994a: 340) suggests that
“[w]ith Triple Alliance support, provincial conquest-states could increase their

173

174

Aztec Society and Culture
own nonimperial tribute demands” by exacting more for themselves alongside the imperial collections and could also gain militarily at the expense of
their neighbors (Chance and Stark 2007: 223). Provincial commoners were not
completely helpless or naive in some of these situations: commoners in both
Coatlan and Cuetlaxtlan boldly called on their Aztec overlords to replace their
own dynastic rulers (Berdan et al. 1996: 279, 286).
Emulation, appropriation, and assimilation were strategies employed by local
rulers as they took on the trappings of their overlords and were “likely pursued by both local elites and aspiring commoners or high-ranking artisans”
(Skoglund et al. 2006: 557). This can be seen in local acquisitions of imperial
language and styles. We find the Nahuatl language spoken among local elites
in non-Nahuatl areas, an acquired skill that must have enhanced their relations
with the Aztecs and heightened their perceived prestige among their local
subjects (e.g., see Berdan et al. 1996: 290–291). In the southern part of the
Empire, local rulers of conquered Tlapa-Tlachinollan experienced considerable acculturation to their conquerors, rapidly adopting Aztec styles as well as
noble titles and symbols of power (Gutiérrez et al. 2009: 53; Gutiérrez 2010:
15–16). The presence of imperial vessel styles in provincial Cuetlaxtlan implies
local emulation and imitation, as does the scattered presence of other works
of art and writing throughout the imperial realm (see Skoglund et al. 2006;
Umberger 1996). Indeed, Elizabeth Boone (1996: 182) suggests that provincial
rulers subscribed to imperial aesthetics by acquiring Aztec-style manuscript
forms, and Lori Diel (2008: 15) further states that “local rulers readily adopted
the annals format, just as they did the calendar, to show their allegiance to the
imperial capital ... the subject community mimicked the capital city in hopes
of appropriating some of that power for itself.” Power, prestige, and survival by
association.
Resistance and rebellion took both covert and overt forms. As expected,
covert forms of resistance are difficult to identify and must be inferred.
However, it may be that the retention of local textile styles in imperial
tribute payments signaled local stubbornness (see Berdan 1992). Outright
rebellions are more clearly documented; rebellions were not only possible
but rather common and seem to have been on the upswing as the Empire
matured. Conquered city-states viewed any sign of imperial weakness as an
opportunity to rebel. One such type of opportunity involved dynastic successions. The uncertainties surrounding the death of an imperial ruler and
the selection of his successor offered a well-timed occasion for rebellion,
and rebellions were frequent while the imperial throne was in transition.
Other opportunities for rebellion arose when the Empire suffered major
military defeats and was perceived as weak and vulnerable. Again, conquered
city-states were not shy about rebelling at such opportunistic moments (see
Berdan 2011b). Rebellions were typically mobilized by local conquered rulers, who faced dangerous reprisals; in the case of Cuetlaxtlan’s rebellion, for

City-States and Imperial Rule
instance, this province’s tribute was doubled and included almost impossible demands, such as white jaguar skins (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 2,
123). This same Cuetlaxtlan was encouraged in its rebellions but was left
unsupported by neighboring Tlaxcallan (it is not entirely clear who initiated
these collaborations – the Tlaxcallans wanted a route to the sea, while the
Cuetlaxtlan ruler gained a strong ally for his rebellion). Attempts to enlist
powerful allies to overthrow existing overlords was a known local strategy;
the ruler of nearby Cempoallan replayed this very scenario upon the arrival
of the Spanish conquistadores, casting his lot with Cortés.
Exodus seems to have been an option chosen in desperation, but one that
was adopted often enough in Postclassic Mesoamerican history.The great midfourteenth-century central Mexican famine sent droves of highland peoples
to the more fertile Gulf coast, where Mexica, Chalca, Texcoca, Xochimilca,
and Tepaneca peoples took refuge (García Márquez 2005: 127). In the early
sixteenth century, people from Huexotzinco sought asylum among their onagain, off-again enemies, the Mexica, believing neighboring Tlaxcallan to be
the greater enemy. Master artisans sought lucrative opportunities in distant
places or were otherwise lured from their homelands (see Chapter 4). Thus
there was quite a bit of moving about the landscape and mixing of ethnic
peoples in single altepetl and provinces.
While altepetl and provinces were political entities, they were ruled, defended,
supported, and simply lived in by people of every social station available in the
Aztec world. How people wended their way through their complex, dynamic,
and often demanding social environment is the subject of the next chapter.

175

C hap t e r 6
LIVING AS AN AZTEC: SOCIAL
S TAT U S A N D DA I LY L I F E

One’s father [is] the source of lineage, the beginning of lineage.... He
advises, he admonishes one. He is exemplary; he leads a model life ... he
is thrifty ... establishes order.... One’s bad father [is] lazy, incompassionate,
negligent, unreliable ... a shirker, a loafer, a sullen worker.
Bernardino de Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 1;
originally written by 1569
One’s mother ... [is] sincere, vigilant, agile, [she is] an energetic worker –
diligent, watchful, solicitous, full of anxiety.... She caresses, she serves others.... One’s bad mother [is] evil, dull, stupid, sleepy, lazy ... disrespectful,
inconsiderate, disregarding, careless ... she expounds nonconformity.
Bernardino de Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 2;
originally written by 1569

It would have been an impossible task to write the preceding chapters without
making fairly frequent reference to nobles and commoners, so deeply were these
divisions of Aztec social life woven into all aspects of their existence. Yet a bit
more can still be said about the strictly social side of their defined relationships
and the inner workings of the Aztec social hierarchy. Everyone occupied a position in this hierarchy and carried out (or not) a prescribed role or roles relative
to his or her station in life.Whatever niche or niches an individual occupied, that
person’s location in the social hierarchy and primary associations within a family
network essentially defined his or her life’s opportunities and restrictions.
An Aztec’s life story was initially established by the circumstances of birth –
birth in the sense of parentage, birth in the sense of gender, and birth in the
sense of a fate-laden astrological date. Beyond these dictates, an individual was
faced with opportunities – for both achievement and disaster. A man could
demonstrate courage or cowardice on the battlefield; a woman could exhibit
energy or laziness on the domestic scene. Men and women could be respectful, obedient, and diligent, or they could turn to gambling, thievery, or excessive drinking. These and other of life’s options were played out in a dynamic
social setting that featured an intense social hierarchy, complex city-state and
176

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
imperial bureaucracies, community and family institutions, and associations
based on achievements, occupations, and religion.
NOBLES AND COMMONERS: RESTRICTIONS AND
OPPORTUNITIES

The fundamental division in Aztec social life was between nobles and commoners,
although there were gradations within both of these broad categories.To complicate matters a bit, the strictness of these ascribed distinctions varied through time,
even within the brief history of the Aztec Empire. In the mid-fifteenth century,
the Mexica ruler Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina (r. 1440–1468) declared a number
of very specific laws designed to separate nobles from commoners, further distinguishing different grades of nobles from one another (see Case 6.1). It is not clear
if these sumptuary rules were already in effect at the time of his formal declaration,
although it is likely that at least similar ones were, if only in an informal sense.1
Motecuhzoma’s predecessor, Itzcoatl (r. 1426–1440), exalted nobility status by
granting noblemen specific “titles of distinction according to their merit” (Durán
1994: 97), accompanied by preeminence (prestige) and lands acquired through conquest. These awards did not come unencumbered: for their part, the titled nobles
dedicated “their lives, their honor, their property, their wives and children, all at his
service and for his defense” (Durán 1994: 97). Later on, Ahuitzotl (r. 1486–1502)
relaxed these rules and allowed greater mobility for achieved commoners into at
least quasi-noble status. Considering this approach rather lax, Ahuitzotl’s successor,
Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (r. 1502–1520), reinstated the more stringent sumptuary
rules, reinforcing sharp status distinctions between nobles and commoners. These
fluctuations, based largely on personal royal preferences and policies, underline the
power of rulers and the state in matters of social rights and relations.

Statuses Ascribed by Birth
Nobles and commoners were distinguished by birthright. At the time of the
Spanish arrival, under the second Motecuhzoma, these distinctions were
more caste-like than class-like, exhibiting an ascribed rigidity based on political, social, and religious dictates. Nonetheless, this was still a highly dynamic
society, and some persons found themselves in ambiguous positions, floating
between genuine nobility and commoner status (see Table 6.1).

nobles
All nobles, whatever their rank, claimed a restricted and lofty ancestry. That
heritage was based on a mythical-religious link to the important creator deity,
Quetzalcoatl, elevating nobles above mere mortal status. In more earthly terms,
Mexica nobles traced their descent to their first legitimate ruler, Acamapichtli.
By the early sixteenth century, these descendants may have “numbered in the

177

178

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 6.1 Behaving Like a Proper Noble or Commoner
The sumptuary laws of the Mexica ruler Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina (r. 1440–
1468) included adherence to the following status-related rules:
1.
2.

The ruler appeared in public only when absolutely necessary.
Only the ruler was permitted to wear the gold diadem within his city, although other great nobles could wear this adornment in war, representing
the ruler.
3. Only the ruler and his second-in-command (cihuacoatl) could wear sandals in the royal palace. Within the city, other great noblemen could wear
sandals. Highly adorned and gilded sandals were reserved for nobles, while
achieved warriors could wear simple, low-quality sandals.
4. Only the ruler was permitted to wear the finest decorated cotton capes,
embellished with royal emblems.
5. Capes of specific designs were reserved for the great nobles, while those of
other designs were to be worn by lesser noblemen.
6. Commoner warriors were allowed only the simplest capes and loincloths,
with no distinguishing designs.
7. Cotton clothing was reserved for the elite, with coarse maguey clothing
worn by commoners. The manner of wearing capes was also specified:
nobles were allowed long capes, while commoners’ capes could not extend below the knee (unless the man had suffered visible war wounds on
his legs).
8. Only great nobles and courageous warriors were allowed houses with a
second story.
9. Only the high-ranking nobles were permitted to wear lip plugs, earplugs,
and noseplugs made of gold and precious stones. Some commoners who
had distinguished themselves in battle were allowed to wear these adornments, as long as they were made of cheap materials such as wood or
bone.
10. Similarly, only rulers and great nobles were permitted to dance with gold
and feathered arm bands, anklets, and rattles. Other jewelry made of gold
and fine stones was likewise restricted to these august individuals. As with
the prior law, achieved commoner warriors were allowed these adornments as long as they were manufactured of nondescript materials.
11. Nobles and commoners were received in different rooms in the ruler’s
palace.
Most of these rules specify the socially and politically acceptable use of overt
symbols of status. Not only did these rules distinguish nobles from commoners,
but they also exalted the ruler above other nobles, and greater nobles above
lesser ones. The laws were supported by the power of the state and given the
stamp of divine approval (Durán 1994: 208–210).

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
tens of thousands” (Calnek 1974b: 202), given the elite practice of polygyny
and the custom of tracing descent along both male and female lines. Since
usually only one noble per city-state could rule as tlatoani at a time and since
a limited number of honorable titles were granted to deserving nobles, it is
understandable that many gradations of nobles appeared over time.
Political power and social status went hand in hand, so it is not surprising to
find rulers (tlatoque) at the pinnacle of Aztec society. These august individuals
ruled over domains large and small; they were ranked among themselves, with
the great imperial ruler called huey tlatoani, or “big speaker.” Rulers of whatever level wielded considerable power, as seen in Chapter 5.
Directly below the ruler was his titled aristocracy, including those closest
to him who served as his immediate advisers and from whom his successor
would be chosen. Titled noblemen (tetecuhtin) were many; they ruled over
noble houses,2 were the custodians of ancient and revered titles, acquired lands
and people to work those lands by virtue of their titles and personal achievements, and occupied the most important jobs in the city-states and Empire
(Figure 6.1).They were judges and generals, governors and ambassadors.There
appears to have been some regional variation in the power bases of these titled
nobles. In some cases, they may have had direct associations with calpolli and
calpolli lands; they may also have enjoyed lands and laborers that were inherited
and/or attached to them by virtue of the titles granted them by their overlord
(see Lockhart 1992: 106, 108).
Still lower on the social ladder, yet nobles by birth, were simply the pipiltin,
“sons of nobles,” who enjoyed elite rights and an elevated lifestyle, although they
less commonly headed noble houses or wielded highly respected titles.3 The most
likely scenario for the creation of these pipiltin is that they were the younger children (or children of lesser wives) of a tlatoani or tecuhtli. There must have been a
considerable number of these, with no city-states or titles to inherit, yet with the
desire and expectation to live as nobles should live. Lesser nobles (especially those
in the Puebla-Tlaxcallan region) remained attached to a related tecuhtli’s noble
house; this acknowledged their noble status and assured these nobles-by-birth of
an elevated lifestyle and standard of living (Lockhart 1992: 102). Depending on
achievements, opportunities, or inclinations, they might serve as tribute collectors, teachers, scribes, military officers, or bureaucratic officials. Priests of all ranks
were also selected from among the nobility, as these were the learned men of the
realm, educated in a priestly calmecac (as described later).
Nobles, whatever their rank, enjoyed certain perquisites.They lived in lavish
palaces (see Chapter 3), were exquisitely and expensively attired, received tributes and services from designated commoners, and held the most prestigious
jobs. Men practiced polygyny, having many wives and children and extending their noble legacies. In addition, “polygyny resulted in the creation of
large, wealthy, and showy households” (Berdan 2011a: 67). Consider the palatial
household of Nezahualpilli, ruler of Texcoco from 1472 to 1515: he reportedly

179

180

Aztec Society and Culture
had 2,000 wives and 144 children. Only 11 of the children were considered
legitimate, yet all were granted considerable wealth and important positions.
Nezahualpilli’s father and predecessor, Nezahualcoyotl (r. Texcoco 1418–1472),
supposedly fathered 117 children; the 60 sons were all provided with lands and
commoners to work them (Offner 1983). No doubt, these noble offspring
expected extraordinary wealth and lofty jobs. Yet their rapid expansion must
have begun to wear on their commoner subjects, who supported these elevated aristocratic standards of living.
While they lived high, nobles also carried weighty responsibilities. Beyond
duties specified for rulers (see Chapter 5), performance in lofty aristocratic
positions often involved serious consequences: a battle’s fortunes might lay
with a military leader’s decisions, the interpretation and execution of justice
lay in the hands of eminent judges, and favorable relations with the deities
depended on proper priestly performance. It was expected that all nobles,
especially those with elevated responsibilities, would exhibit exemplary
behavior and serve as models of proper “Aztec-ness,” behaving in a manner to
be respected, admired, and emulated. These high expectations meant that any
breaches in proper behavior, from moral transgressions to outright criminal
actions, were punished especially severely. It was particularly important for
proper nobles to carry on the legacies of their forebears, always demonstrating their exemplary upbringing. Various “good” noblemen were described
as courageous and reserved, energetic and reverent. Apparently there were
also “bad” nobles, described as irresponsible, impetuous, disrespectful, and,
in general, troublemakers.4 They were both leaders and followers, depending on their current location on the political ladder, but were consistently
expected to advise and take responsibilities (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10,
15–22). Noblewomen managed large, complicated households and, like their
male counterparts, were expected to honor their noble lineages. They were
also held to high standards of behavior: they were respected and esteemed for
their patience, kindness, dignity, and humility. They demonstrated persuasive
and peaceful administrative skills. Those who did not live up to these standards were described as untrained, unjust, pompous, and negligent (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 10, 45–50). One variety of “bad” noblewoman was considered “common, dull – descended from commoners, irritating” (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 10, 48). The gulf between nobles and commoners was a
well-recognized and often-reinforced one.

commoners
Those not born as nobles were, by definition, commoners (usually called macehualtin). People in this stratum of society occupied the lowest rung on the
social ladder, owing tributes in goods and/or services to a noble overlord. As
Lockhart (1992: 96) has observed, the term macehualli carries the dual meaning
of “commoner” and “subject.” In short, while the nobility enjoyed an extraordinary lifestyle, the commoners provided it.

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

Figure 6.1. Lords with exalted titles and insignia. (From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4,
folio 67r.)

Commoner farmers, fishers, and artisans are considered to fall into two general categories: macehualtin and mayeque or tlalmaitec. The former were calpolli
residents in central Mexico’s many city-states who owed public service and
tribute to their tlatoani. Their labor supported the coatequitl, or rotational draft
labor system (see Figure 6.2). Mayeque were attached to noble houses (teccalli or
tecpan) and the private lands of individual nobles. These dependent commoners were directly responsible to their lord and were not required to contribute
to the public labor drafts. In either case, their activities, standards of living,
and types of obligations were similar: farmers farmed and owed foodstuffs
to their overlords, fishers fished and paid in their aquatic yields, and artisans
fashioned everyday and expensive items, paying their tributes in their manufactured goods. Like other aspects of Aztec life, one’s specific status as a commoner could rapidly change, especially following the fortunes of war. Warfare
and resultant conquest directly affected a city-state’s commoner population, as,
for instance, in the conquest of Coyoacan by the Mexica:
Following that city’s conquest by the Aztecs, its communal lands were
divided. Some were allocated to the Aztec ruler for the support of the royal
palace and state functions. Others were distributed among the successful
warriors, according to their merit and accomplishments in battle. Durán
makes it clear that the residents of Coyoacan were then made “terrasguerros” [mayeque]. Since their communal (calpulli) lands had been turned into
private lands for the Aztec nobility, their new status was that of mayeque, or
tenants. (Berdan 2005: 67)

181

182

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 6.2.
Commoners
receiving orders
for corvée labor.
Note tears. (From
Berdan and
Anawalt 1992: vol.
4, folio 70r.)

Yet we cannot say that mayeque were economically any less well off than
macehualtin. Socially, macehualtin may have had an edge over mayeque, since their
economic base rested in the communal lands of a calpolli and they could enjoy
the other advantages of that organization. Calpolli were more than simple residential districts. Their residents were integrated administratively under the
leadership of a calpollec, were focused religiously on a patron deity and temple,
and had a military school for young men (telpochcalli). Some calpolli were united
through a common ethnicity and perhaps kinship. The importance of kinship
as an organizing principle seems to have varied considerably; Carrasco (1971:
368) suggests that the smaller calpolli may have been organized “around a core
of consanguineal kinsmen.” Members of some calpolli engaged in a common
occupation, a few developing into some relatively powerful artisan “guilds.”
Members of a calpolli were taxed as a unit, and a calpolli’s young men went into
battle as a unit. It is unclear if some mayeque, such as those just described from
Coyoacan, also maintained these cohesive features.
Social expectations differed noticeably for nobles and commoners. The
Aztec “astrological handbook,” or tonalpohualli, makes this quite clear. For
example, a noble born on the favorable day One Alligator would be “a lord, a
ruler; he would prosper; he would be rich and wealthy.” A commoner born on
the same day would be “a brave warrior – a valiant chief, esteemed, honored
and great. He would always eat.” A nobleman born on One Rain or One Wind
was destined to be “a wizard ... an astrologer, one who had spells to cast,” while
a commoner born on those days would be a “demon,” but not on the order of
an astrologer. A nobleman born on One Deer would become famous, wealthy,
and generous; a corresponding commoner would succeed as a brave warrior,
even “a valiant chieftain.” Conversely, bad day signs specified the ways in which
nobles and commoners could fail. The astrological handbook makes few class

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
distinctions for women, although they also were subject to good or bad fates.
In short, expected behaviors were defined differently for nobles and commoners. Good signs favored people in both statuses, elevating them in their
own social arenas: favored nobles would become powerful and wealthy, favored
commoners would be successful as warriors, farmers, or artisans. In contrast,
unfavorable signs foretold failure in one’s expected undertakings (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 4).
There were also clear distinctions between the living standards of nobles
and commoners. This can be seen archaeologically in domestic structures
and artifact assemblages. Excavated sites in Morelos indicate distinctive differences between noble and commoner houses in size and building materials
(see Chapter 3), as well as in the quantity of elite items (such as polychrome
pottery and jade jewelry) (see Smith 1997). Some commoner houses possessed
these fine goods, but noble houses clearly had more of them. Differences in
wealth would have been visible in many aspects of life; the bathing and naming
of an infant, for example, was celebrated by both nobles and commoners, but
with differing degrees of affluence. The noble household provided an elaborate banquet with large amounts of food, tobacco, chocolate, and flowers,
along with lively entertainment. A commoner household celebrated the same
momentous event with less extravagance: “perhaps only leftover, bitter sauces,
and stale tamales and tortillas were offered them; along with old, withered
flowers” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 124).5
While the gulf between noble and commoner was vast, commoners themselves were not all alike, exhibiting a wide variation in activities and standards
of living. We see commoner lands ranging from 92 to 8,701 square meters
in a section of Texcoco and from 4 to 1,377 square meters in Tenochtitlan’s
chinampa districts (Hicks 1976: 72; Calnek 1974a: 47). In Morelos, some commoner houses possessed expensive elite goods (see Case 8.2), while others did
not (Smith 1997). Some fortunate artisans might be employed by the ruler
or an affluent noble on a regular or situational basis and compensated handsomely. For instance, sculptors commissioned to carve a statue of Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin were generously paid for their skills. Upon beginning the work,
each received an unspecified amount of clothing; ten loads of squashes and
beans; two loads of chiles, cotton, and cacao; and a boatload of maize. When
the work was satisfactorily completed, the same sculptors were each provided
with two slaves, two loads of cacao, a load of cloth, and some pottery and salt
(Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 668–669). While these payments were essentially
in subsistence goods (with the exception of slaves and cacao), they were substantial and may well have allowed these commoners to provide more than
“withered flowers” at their child’s naming ceremony.
Social status was linked to power as well as wealth, the general notion being
that nobles enjoyed power while commoners did not.Yet there are some suggestions that commoners were not entirely powerless. They were reportedly

183

184

Aztec Society and Culture
instrumental in a significant provincial power struggle: commoners of the citystate of Coatlan,6 displeased with their ruler, called on the Mexica for assistance
in their political machinations (Berdan et al. 1996: 279). “While not terribly
common, this type of populist movement was not unknown; while commoners are characteristically described as powerless, they were neither naive nor
shy in the face of these types of power plays” (Berdan 2011a: 73). Commoners
also provided the rank and file of the army-on-the-march, and their loyalty was
essential to successful military campaigns. These warriors, exhilarated by victory, were not always easy to control. For instance, the Mexica ruler Ahuitzotl,
personally leading the conquest of Tecuantepec, ordered a halt to the massive
looting of the city by his forces. However, “the soldiers became very angry and
swore they would never again go to war in such a remote region where, having
conquered, they were not even allowed to sack the cities for their own benefit”
(Durán 1994: 353). Even so powerful a ruler as Ahuitzotl found it necessary to
promise them compensation in order to calm their rebelliousness.
Some commoners played important roles in specific society-wide ceremonies, especially those linked to patron deities of particular occupations.
For instance, sculptors, painters, weavers, and embroiderers worshipped the
goddess Xochiquetzal; mat makers revered Nappa Tecuhtli; hunters honored
Camaxtli; physicians revered Teteo Inan; “water folk” worshipped Opochtli;
and merchants worshipped Yacatecuhtli (Durán 1971: 239, 244; Sahagún 1950–
1982: book 1; see Chapter 7). Many of the ceremonies honoring these deities
were public affairs, the relevant professionals contributing substantially to their
successful observance. For instance, merchants and mat makers bathed slaves
and offered them for sacrifice during their specified ceremonies, and physicians were expected to flatter and please Teteo Inan during her feast day (see
Chapter 7). In short, these commoners, linked by occupation, contributed to
the larger ceremonial world of the Aztecs through their required participation
in public rituals. Indeed, they were primary actors on some of these ceremonial stages.

Intermediate Positions and Achievement in Aztec Society
Little is cut and dried in any social system, and Aztec society was no exception.
While it is convenient to divide the society into nobles and commoners, there
were also a number of people of ambiguous status. Some had drifted down
from the lofty elite world. Others, commoners, were rising up to enjoy a more
elevated and even influential lifestyle (Table 6.1). People occupied these positions on the basis of both birthright and personal achievement.
Of those reasonably categorized as “intermediate,” only the teixhuihuan
(someone’s grandchildren) exhibit diminished social status.These persons were
most likely the grandchildren of tetecuhtin or pipiltin. With polygyny a common practice among nobles, the number of elite children was potentially quite

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

185

Table 6.1. Aztec social class structure
Status
Nobility
Rulers

Nahuatl Term

Definition and Obligations

tlatoani (sing.)
tlatoque (pl.)

Supreme heads of citystates, conquest states,
and empire
Head of a noble house;
usually occupied high
governmental and
military positions
Children of rulers and
titled lords; occupied
governmental, military,
and religious positions

Titled lords

tecuhtli (sing.)
tetecuhtin (pl.)

Nobles
(“sons of nobles”)

pilli (sing.)
pipiltin (pl.)

Intermediate positions
Distant noble relations
(“someone’s
grandchildren”)

teixhuiuh (sing.)
teixhuihuan (pl.)

Eagle nobles

quauhpilli (sing.)
quauhpipiltin (pl.)

Professional merchants

pochtecatl (sing.)
pochteca (pl.)

Luxury artisans

tolteccatl (sing.)
toltecca (pl.)

Commoners
Commoners
Attached commoners

Slaves

macehualli (sing.)
macehualtin (pl.)
maye (sing.)
mayeque (pl.)
tlalmaitl (sing.)
tlalmaitec (pl.)
tlacohtli (sing.)
tlacohtin (pl.)

Tlaxcallan: distant relatives
of and subordinate to
a specific noble/noble
house
Commoners achieving
quasi-nobility status
through battle exploits
Merchants organized
in guilds and trading
luxuries over long
distances; also served as
state agents
Producers of fine objects of
gold, precious stones, and
feathers; some attached
to palaces, others
probably guild-organized
Primary producers
organized into calpolli
Primary producers working
on nobles’ private lands

Provided much urban labor
for nobles; status attained
through economic need,
gambling, or a criminal
act (usually theft)

186

Aztec Society and Culture
large, with room for only one of them to inherit leadership of the noble house.
The noninheriting individuals, still of noble blood, continued to be attached
to the noble house but seem to represent a stage “transitional between noblemen and commoners ... whereby some nobles were falling out of the nobility”
(Lockhart 1992: 98). In early colonial times, there was considerable confusion
regarding the noble versus commoner status of these individuals (Lockhart
1992: 97).While the term teixhuihuan is found only in documents pertaining to
Tlaxcallan, the actual existence of persons in this type of position was probably
widespread, perhaps represented by the tecpanpouhque (those who belong to the
palace) in the Basin of Mexico.While Offner (1983: 135) refers to these persons
as commoners, he also recognizes that “because of their close association with
their lords, they enjoyed a high status and were highly respected by the common people” (1983: 128). Their responsibilities included the maintenance and
care of the palace, and they were of sufficient importance to accompany their
lord on jaunts outside the noble house. Every generation would have created
more of these loosely defined individuals.
Quauhpipiltin (eagle nobles) were individuals rising from the commoner
ranks into a quasi-noble status. They achieved this through military exploits
involving the capture of several enemy warriors on the battlefield (see Case
8.1).7 The nobility-by-birth tended to regard these men as upstarts or intruders
on their established status. They were quite popular with Ahuitzotl during his
reign and at that time occupied some high administrative positions, although
his successor strongly curbed their privileges.There are suggestions that this status could not be inherited by one’s children, so it was strictly a onetime award
based on an individual’s personal achievements. A quauhpilli commoner could
rise even higher on the social/political ladder by being installed as a quauhtlatoani, an appointed temporary ruler of a subdued city-state (Lockhart 1992:
109). Quauhpipiltin were also possible candidates for other governmental positions open to commoners: as the ruler’s executors (achcacauhtin) in Tenochtitlan,
as part of a shared command (with a nobleman) in some conquered city-states,
and even as members of the Texcoco royal council (Carrasco 1971: 354–355).
Professional merchants and luxury artisans were commoners by birth,
although there are suggestions that some nobles may have engaged in luxury craft production (see Pasztory 1983: 66). Luxury artisans are placed in an
“intermediate position” in the social hierarchy on the basis their extraordinary
wealth and the political favor they gained as a result of their economic importance (Figure 6.3). They were in an enviable social position: the results of their
labors were in great demand by the expanding nobility, who required more
and more luxury goods to advertise and flaunt their social status.
Professional merchants (pochteca) acquired considerable wealth, prestige,
and influence in their roles as private entrepreneurs and state agents (see
Chapter 4), some of them (oztomeca) spying for the state as “disguised merchants” in outlying regions. They also enjoyed certain privileges not available

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

187

Figure 6.3. A wealthy
deceased merchant wrapped
in cloth and expensive
adornments, accompanied
by his precious feathers,
stones, gold, and a jaguar
pelt. (From Nuttall 1903:
folio 68r.)

to other commoners. While this might seem ideal, the merchants nonetheless
found themselves in a rather tenuous and stressful social and political position
vis-à-vis the nobility (who were, for their part, dependent on the merchants
for their status symbols).They feasted elaborately among themselves (Case 6.2)
but went about humbly when in public. They portrayed themselves as hardworking, self-sacrificing travelers in service to the state. They found it necessary to sneak back into Tenochtitlan after a successful trading expedition,
hiding their accumulated wealth from the prying eyes of the elite. In short, the
merchants carefully and intentionally shunned the elite world of conspicuous
consumption, perhaps to avoid openly challenging the powerful nobles and
their elevated position in the social hierarchy (see Berdan 2005: 37).
These professional merchants were members of guild-like organizations
in specific calpolli of Basin of Mexico city-states. Physically concentrated and
favored by the state, they controlled essential aspects of their profession: membership, training, standards and expectations, accumulation of wealth, status,
rewards, and the organization of trading expeditions. Members of these guilds
were ranked hierarchically on the basis of their successes in economic ventures, generosity in feasting, and contributions to religious rituals.The highestranking merchants served as judges in the marketplaces, a significant economic
and political role. Trading ventures were organized by guild leaders and must
have been somewhat complicated: pochteca carried not only their own and
their ruler’s goods, but also the property of other guild members not making
the journey (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 14).
Much as the pochteca and oztomeca contributed to the economic prosperity
of the Empire, so too did the wealthiest pochteca contribute to the Empire’s
spiritual well-being. During the month of Panquetzaliztli, a wealthy, accomplished merchant could purchase, bathe, and offer a slave for sacrifice. This largess entailed a great deal of feasting within the guild (Case 6.2) and ultimately
the offering of the sacrifice for the religious benefit of the society at large.

188

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 6.2 A Merchant’s Feast
Having travelled to dangerous and distant lands and braved natural elements and
human enemies, the Aztec pochteca returned to their home cities laden with luxurious and exotic goods. Had they been nobles, they would have flaunted this finery
in a shameless display of conspicuous consumption. But they were not nobles.Any
display of their great wealth would have seriously annoyed the hereditary nobles.
Instead, the merchants applied their wealth to climbing their own social ladder, a
hierarchical system specific to the merchants. To be an ambitious merchant was
to spend hard-won wealth on lavish feasts, essentially exchanging that material
wealth for social position within the merchant guild. The most extravagant feast
for them took place during the month of Panquetzaliztli.This is what it cost:

1 slave for sacrifice (worth 30–40 quachtli, or large capes)
800–1,200 precious cloaks
400 decorated loincloths
unspecified quantities of tunics and skirts
80–100 turkeys
20–40 dogs
bins of maize, beans, and chia
unspecified quantities of tomatoes, chiles, and squash seeds
40–60 jars of salt
atole in “merchants” vessels
3–4 “boats” of water (1 boat of water = 1 small cape = 100 cacao beans)
20 sacks of cacao beans for drinking
2,000–4,000 chocolate beaters
miscellaneous items, such as firewood, charcoal, large baskets, cups, plates,
and sauce dishes
Not mentioned for this particular feast were the usual amenities, including copal incense, flowers, tobacco to aid digestion, and hallucinogenic mushrooms.
The slave was offered for sacrifice, the clothing was presented as gifts, and the
lavish feast was enjoyed by those in attendance. High-ranking merchants and
nobles were invited to such festivities, enjoying the potlatch-like formalities
and their host’s unstinting generosity (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 45–48).

Luxury artisans (toltecca) likewise enjoyed the potential to gain considerable wealth, despite their commoner status. Their very name harked back to
the revered and esteemed Toltecs, elevating their social status with a single
word. While we know less about these socially and economically ascending
commoners, they appear to have resided in urban calpolli, focused their rituals on specific deities, and maintained close relations with both the professional merchants and high-ranking nobles. For instance, the featherworkers

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
(amanteca) lived in close proximity to the pochteca in Tlatelolco, some of these
accomplished artisans also taking up residence in Tenochtitlan’s royal palace.
In another vein, the lapidaries were sufficiently influential to provide the
ruler Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin with incentives to initiate war on two distant city-states when those polities refused to provide him with an especially
fine abrasive sand for the lapidaries’ craft (Durán 1994: 417–424). In general,
as producers of fine works made of feathers, gold, and precious stones, these
artisans were influential and catered to the wealthiest and most powerful
individuals in Aztec society. They were correspondingly well compensated
for their skills (see Chapter 4 for a more extended discussion of the luxury
artisans).
Can those who occupied these intermediate positions be considered a “middle class”? Frederic Hicks (1999) has suggested that they can be and that their
presence in the social hierarchy was essential to the maintenance of the upper
echelon.Yet, in the early sixteenth-century Aztec world, the social scheme more
closely resembled a caste system, the fundamental division between nobles and
commoners determined more rigidly by birthright than one might expect of
classes with greater mobility. The social wiggle room afforded by various avenues of achievement (e.g., battlefield exploits, merchant and artisan gains) does
not necessarily mean that these persons constituted a meaningful “middle class.”
Indeed, the ascent of the achieved warriors was highly individualized, and the
luxury artisans and professional merchants operated more as distinct privileged
and wealthy occupational groups than as a broadly based middle class. Fallen
nobles were still attached to specific noble houses and shared no particular
commonality across the many noble houses. It is difficult to detect a common
set of “middle class” values or lifestyles among these types of persons. Indeed,
life in the intermediate social realm was probably somewhat fragmented and
ill-defined, where wealth, power, and prestige were not as consistently packaged as in the more traditionally established noble and commoner tiers. The
intermediate realm represented a dynamic, unsettled, and in some ways unpredictable social situation. Consider how the dictates of two individual rulers
(Ahuitzotl and Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin), mentioned earlier in this chapter,
could either promote or restrict those on the social upswing.
This leaves the slaves among individuals who achieved particular social
niches. Slavery was not a desirable option, as it signaled a severe loss of social
position. Slaves were of two general types in Aztec society: warriors captured
on the battlefield and individuals who entered a more long-lasting period
of slavery largely through their own efforts. The captives made little impression on the social scene, as they were soon offered as ritual sacrifices. Their
most significant contribution took the form of the social honors bestowed on
their captors, and the part they played as sacrifices in maintaining the universe
(admittedly not a small matter; see Chapter 7).

189

190

Aztec Society and Culture
It is the other genre of slaves, tlacohtin, that concerns us here.These were persons
who faced unfortunate circumstances or made poor and ultimately detrimental
decisions, resulting in the surrender of their labor to another person and even
perhaps their lives to the state religion.The circumstances and individual decisions
involved serious poverty, irresponsible personal behavior, and certain crimes.
Poverty existed in the Aztec world. Sahagún (1950–1982: book 4, 31) describes
the poor person as dressed in rags, living in a cold and ramshackle house and
surrounded by rubbish. Economically destitute, such a person could relieve his
or her hardships by a servitude transaction enacted before at least four witnesses – a willing individual could provide the desperate person with 20 cloaks
(expected to support the person for one year), demanding service in repayment of the debt (Motolinía 1971: 366–367). In some cases, economic penury
was the result of an individual’s own actions; an uncontrollable addiction to
gambling appears to have been an especially common vice. Playing out an
unhappy scenario, such an individual could lose all of his belongings and those
of his parents and finally lose control over his own labor as well, and possibly
even end up as a ritually bathed sacrificial offering – all to cover gambling
debts (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 94). This unfortunate man, it was said, was
burdened by an unlucky day sign, One House. A woman born on the same day
was fated to be lazy and careless, ultimately entering servitude, where she continued to be vain and incorrigible (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 95). She could
then be sold to slave dealers, ending up as a ceremonially bathed sacrifice.
In some other cases of impoverishment, however, the forces of poverty were
beyond an individual’s control. A most calamitous occurrence was the devastating drought in central Mexico in the mid-1400s. Years of famine left vast
numbers of people starving, many of whom sought relief by selling daughters
(for 400 ears of maize) and sons (for 500 ears of maize) into slavery to people
on the Gulf coast, where maize was plentiful (Torquemada 1969: vol. 1, 158).
In a different vein, debts always had to be honored: if a person incurred a debt
and died without paying, a surviving family member was obligated to work
off the debt (Motolinía 1971: 370). An additional road to enslavement involved
the commission of certain crimes, especially theft. Consistent with the theme
of debt payment, the apprehended thief was obligated to work for his or her
victim until the amount of the theft was paid off.
The status of slave in the Aztec world was generally not inherited8 but was
instead individually “achieved.” Slaves were not considered property; rather,
they retained rights to marriage and possessions, sometimes acquiring slaves
themselves. And they were not neglected ritually, for they were treated with
special care on the day One Death (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 34). While
virtually anyone could acquire slaves, undoubtedly the greatest number were
found in the households of nobles who could both afford and use them. They
served the many everyday needs of these extensive and complex households,
and themselves were provided with a certain level of sustenance, more closely

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
resembling a social welfare system than our customary notions of slavery on
the worldwide historical stage.
The status of slaves was often transitory: some would have provided the
obligatory service obligations and paid their way out of their unfortunate circumstances, while others, if uncooperative, were sold to slave merchants, who
might fit them with collars and sell them in the marketplaces. Wealthy purchasers sought such slaves for sacrifice at specific religious ceremonies and
gained considerable prestige by offering them. The fact that specialized slave
merchants frequented marketplaces and that certain marketplaces were wellknown venues for slave dealings suggests a lively trade in these individuals.
FAMILY AND DAILY LIFE

Beyond expectations attached to social statuses, an individual’s behavior was
molded and carried out within the context of a family and was linked to the
dynamics of familial roles, gender, and age. In this most basic of institutions,
what sorts of rules and proprieties did one live by, what sorts of expectations
were attached to one’s designated roles in life, and what kinds of rights and
obligations did one exercise in relations with others? In short, what did it take
to live as a proper Aztec on a daily basis? As is usual in human societies, most
individuals learned their culture’s conventions and adhered closely enough to
their prescribed lot in life. Yet proper social mores were not always successfully imparted, absorbed, or practiced.Whether through extraordinary circumstances or individual decisions, some individuals deviated from “the proper
life,” in the most extreme cases embarking on a life of crime.

Family Formation and Roles
kinship rules
Families were constructed from kinship rules specifying both consanguineal
and affinal relationships. With one’s station in life established initially by one’s
parentage, kinship took center stage. Whether born high or low, every Aztec
individual traced relations equally through father and mother, that is, bilaterally (see Figure 6.4). Great significance was placed on these dual relations at
the loftier social levels, since the consolidation and conveyance of considerable
power and property were involved. At more humble commoner levels, bilateral relations provided a broadly based network of obligatory and supportive
kin relations.
Aztec kinship relations were distinctly ego-centered. Related kin radiated
outward from each individual, designated by parallel terms on father’s and
mother’s sides (e.g., -ahui- refers to both father’s sister and mother’s sister).
Furthermore, terminological distinctions were made depending on whether
a male or a female was the reference point. For instance, one’s older sister

191

192

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 6.4. Mexica kinship terminology: consanguines. In actual use, these terms
carried possessive prefixes (e.g., nonan = my mother). (From Berdan 2005: 74. Courtesy
Wadsworth.)

was called -pi by the younger sister and -hueltiuh by the younger brother.
Accentuating their ego focus, Nahuatl kin terms were (and are today) always
found in possessed form (e.g., my mother, his older brother). As can already
be seen, within one’s own generation, siblings (and first cousins) were further distinguished by age relative to the speaker.9 Such fine distinctions were
made among members of one’s own generation, and gender distinctions were
made in the next three ascending and one descending generations. However,
one’s great-great-grandparent was called by a single term whether male or
female, and likewise with one’s grandchild. What do these terminologies suggest to us about actual relations within a family setting? First of all, relative
age among siblings was especially significant, older siblings carrying heavier
familial responsibilities than their younger siblings. This would have especially

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
been the case in households containing married brothers, where the elder
brother would be the undisputed head of the joint household, controlling the
domestic resources. Along with these responsibilities (or potential responsibilities) came special privileges (Figure 6.5). Second, gender differences were
reinforced through these terminologies, in terms of both the individual being
referred to (or addressed) and the person speaking.With every speech act, one’s
gender was verbally reaffirmed (notably within one’s own generation): these
types of distinctions would have served to reinforce, on a continual basis, the
differences between male and female in the world of kin relations. Finally, kin
terms were generalized in distant generations: perhaps this far from ego, actual
interpersonal relations were relatively weak and did not require fine-tuning.
However, this does not mean that ancestors were not revered, for they clearly
were: the pervasive Nahua concept of tlacamecayotl (literally “rope of people”)
refers to the deep ancestry of people living nonetheless in a rather shallow
context of related kin (see Kellogg 1986b).

inheritance
Inheritance, or the transfer of possessions and titles usually on the death of the
owner, was carried out in the context of these kinship rules. A bilateral system implies inheritance of possessions, titles, and rights from both father’s and
mother’s sides, and this was indeed the case with the Aztecs.
While detailed information on pre-Columbian property inheritance is
admittedly thin, colonial documentation is richly endowed with wills and
similar records that reflect pre-conquest indigenous patterns. The most significant resources were house sites and lands. The issue of land transference
continues to be a nagging problem for present-day scholars. We have seen
that altepetl and calpolli were involved with controlling lands but, as Lockhart
(1992: 146) asks, “to what extent is use of the word ‘communal’ justified?”
Lockhart argues compellingly that both inheritance and corporate allocation
were involved in pre-conquest land transferences, with the sale of land less
common (Lockhart 1992: 146–147, 154–155). Kellogg (1995: 123) asserts that
in late pre-Hispanic times “an increasing amount of land was becoming ‘privately’ owned ... though this ownership may often have been by kin groups,
not individuals.” House sites and compounds, as well as lands, were usually
divided among close relatives, particularly siblings and offspring. If siblings
inherited together, the eldest brother was considered the guardian of the property, in keeping with his elevated status in the kinship system. Where a spouse
survived, that individual often inherited the entire property, to be held for
eventual inheritance by the couple’s children. Males and females could inherit
from either males or females, with no clear preference except with land, which
tended to favor male heirs. More distant relatives, including in-laws, could also
inherit these resources, but this may reflect the severe indigenous depopulation
in early colonial times. Movable property consisted essentially of household

193

194

Aztec Society and Culture
possessions, such as agricultural tools, metates and other cooking utensils, weaving equipment, clothing, cacao beans, boats, and musical instruments (Cline
and León-Portilla 1984).These fell to a broad spectrum of heirs, without regard
to gender, although women tended to more frequently bequeath their possessions to female heirs or grandchildren than did men (Kellogg 1986a: 322–323).
In the colonial sixteenth century, tribute received from dependent laborers
could be inherited, as in a 1566 will where a nobleman passed on such payments in turkeys, cacao beans, chiles, wood, and tamales to his wife (Kellogg
1986a). It is likely that this reflects a pre-conquest situation.
Inheritance of titles followed specific rules and was, of course, restricted to
rulers and other nobles. Grounded first and foremost in kinship relations, a title
was generally passed from brother to brother (as in Tenochtitlan) or father to
son (as in Texcoco and Tlacopan). Yet this is still a bit vague, for the title did
not automatically pass to, say, the eldest surviving brother or son, but to the one
deemed most capable of wearing those honors and carrying those responsibilities. The rank of the potential successor’s mother was also a prime consideration in the choice of the new ruler. Still, the eldest theoretically topped the
list: “The son chosen was the eldest son born of the ruler’s principal wife ... if
the eldest son was not qualified to rule, his father selected from his other sons
the one who seemed the most competent to succeed, always giving preference
to the sons of his principal wife in this and all else” (Zorita 1963: 90). In this
example, the father made the determination, but at the loftiest level, that of the
Triple Alliance rulers, the choices involved confirmation by other high-ranking nobility and the rulers of the other two allied city-states (see Chapter 5).
With this much at stake, one can not only imagine but also find records of
intense sibling rivalries and jealousies. Nezahualpilli, who rose to the throne
of Texcoco in 1472 at the tender age of 7, was selected over four older brothers, the eldest instated as regent for the young lord. Nezahualpilli’s three other
rivals plotted against him, and he was saved only by the intervention of the
rulers of Tenochtitlan and Tlacopan, who whisked him off to Tenochtitlan to
be confirmed as legitimate ruler of Texcoco. This apparently carried sufficient
weight to stifle the ambitions of his contentious siblings (Alva Ixtlilxochitl
1965: vol. 2, 241–250). Yet there was some leeway with these principles and
procedures: as already seen, Nezahualpilli was a younger brother; so was the
Mexica ruler Axayacatl, and the Mexica tlatoani Itzcoatl was born of a slave girl
rather than a noble princess (Durán 1994: 53, 71).10

marriage rules and household dynamics
Marriage extended an individual’s web of kin and provided for the core development of new household units (Figure 6.6). At around age 15 for females and
age 20 for males, spouses were sought and new families formed (McCaa 1994).
The choice of a suitable marriage partner was constrained by rules of exogamy
and endogamy. Rules of exogamy applied to the nuclear family, but apparently

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

195

Figure 6.5. The elder brother favored over
the younger. (From Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 5, illus. 9. Courtesy University of Utah
Press. Reproduced with permission.)

not beyond. Preferences for endogamy were tied to the social hierarchy and,
less clearly, to calpolli. Nobles were expected to marry nobles, usually with
political advantage in mind and highlighting the relative social ranks of the inlaws (see Chapter 5).11 The ruling dynasty of Tenochtitlan further consolidated
power and resources by orchestrating marriages among close royal relatives:
“The principal wives of the Tenochca rulers, and consequently the mothers of
their successors, were women of their own dynasty and very close agnates, in
some cases daughters of former kings” (Carrasco 1984: 63). A similar idea of
consolidation may have been sought by commoners residing in calpolli, or at
least specialized calpolli. In particular, professional merchants and craft specialists concentrated in fairly exclusive residential districts would have benefited
from an endogamous approach. For instance, the featherworkers produced
their luxurious objects in a household setting, where both males and females
performed specialized roles in the manufacturing process; certainly a girl who
had been trained to select feathers with a keen eye to color was a desirable
addition through marriage to any other featherworking household, as was a
boy who had been instructed in other aspects of the craft (see Case 4.2). Such
households, and the calpolli generally, could continually consolidate resources
and maintain their exclusive knowledge base, reinforcing their pivotal economic roles vis-à-vis the elite.
Nobles further expanded on political opportunities by marrying several
women of noble birth, thus gaining many valuable allies. This elite polygyny
resulted in expansive and complex households, numerous children, and a good
dose of palace intrigue (see Chapters 3 and 5). The scale of these households is
suggested by that of the Texcocan ruler Nezahualpilli (r. 1472–1515). While the
number of family members is perhaps exaggerated, even if he had half of his
reported 2,000 wives (most likely concubines) and 144 children, his household
size, complexity, and expenses (provided by dependent commoners) would have
been extraordinary (Alva Ixtlilxochitl 1965: 267). Perhaps his father had set the
bar: this ruler’s 60 sons were all provided with lands and commoners to serve
them, and his 57 daughters would have required preferential elite marriages.
While all these children received noble inheritances, they were not all equal:
those of the primary (highest-ranking) wife were considered “legitimate” and

196

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 6.6. Mexica kinship terminology: affines. In actual use, these terms carried
possessive prefixes (e.g., nomon = my son-in-law). (From Berdan 2005: 74. Courtesy
Wadsworth.)

given preference, especially in the inheritance of titles. Of Nezahualpilli’s considerable brood, only 11 of the children were considered “legitimate.” This still
set the stage for fierce sibling competition, as already seen in the example of
this ruler’s early quandaries. This is rich interpersonal detail, but unfortunately
we have much less information on commoners. However, we do know that
they married monogamously and formed various types of households. While
they lived in much smaller dwellings containing fewer adults and children (see
Chapter 3), this does not mean that their households were necessarily simple
or harmonious.
A usual feature of bilateral kinship systems is flexibility of postmarital residence options. Upon marriage, most couples had some choices available as to
their place of marital residence, with an important difference between nobles
and commoners. Logically and according to the histories, it appears that the
highest-ranking nobles, at least rulers and heads of noble houses, had the least
choice (not unusual among royalty throughout history). A male tlatoani or
tecuhtli by necessity would remain in his own altepetl or noble house upon
marriage, with his several wives (even if they were of higher rank) moving into
his expansive palace. By the same token, a more unusual female tlatoani would
expect her husband to move to her palace, but unfortunately precise information on this is lacking. More options seem to have been available to commoners, who could set up their own household, reside with the groom’s parents
and/or brothers, live with the bride’s parents, or engage in a less common but
still suitable arrangement. These choices led to the formation of either nuclear
or joint households, with joint households usually containing from two to six
nuclear families.
In Tenochtitlan, joint families were the most common, with the young couple
frequently residing with either set of parents and less often with any close relative
on either the groom’s or bride’s side. Agnatic ties among males were preferred,

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
with joint households frequently formed through brother, father–son, and uncle–
nephew relationships. Postmarital residence with the bride’s family seems to have
represented either a temporary period of bride service or concerns about resource
and labor availability (e.g., where the groom’s family was already too large for its
resource base, and the bride’s family was short on male labor). Household dynamics dictated that when the elderly parents died, the remaining joint household
consisted of a group of married siblings, which was a common occurrence. As
already mentioned, in this setting the oldest brother became the head of the joint
household. Social class entered in mostly in terms of scale: sons often brought
their brides to reside in the noble houses or palaces of their birth. Given the
practice of elite polygyny, these sons potentially were many, and they themselves
enhanced their households with more than one wife. Early colonial data indicate
that both joint and nuclear households were formed elsewhere in central Mexico,
with a rough equivalence in the incidence of the two types (see Case 6.3).
Several factors might have been conducive to the formation of either nuclear
or joint households among commoners. The key was flexibility. The variety of
options available to the newly married couple would have allowed them to

Case 6.3 After the Wedding,Then What?
Having achieved family approval and braved the lengthy wedding ceremony,
a new couple needed to find a place to reside together, either temporarily or
permanently. An Aztec couple had several options open to them depending on
their social status, resource base, presence of relatives on either side with available or expandable living space, and probably personal preferences or conflicts
with relatives (although we know little of this).In Chapter 3 we saw, archaeologically, a wide range of house sizes and physical layouts. Yet beyond the
arrangements of rooms and despite the presence of household artifacts such as
cooking implements and figurines, the archaeological record offers relatively
few details on the relationships among the actual occupants of these various
houses. For this, we must turn to ethnohistory, although that also has its imperfections. In this case, the details come from early colonial times and hence
are tinged by demographic and social changes associated with the trauma and
aftermath of the Spanish conquest. Nonetheless, some of the very early colonial
information (first half of the sixteenth century) can still be considered reflective
of pre-conquest conditions.
Census data from Tepoztlan, just to the south of Tenochtitlan (Mexico
City), reveal slightly more nuclear families than extended ones (54 to 43 percent) throughout the town of 12,062 persons (Carrasco 1971: 368). The
majority of joint families consisted of two married couples, most of them
linked through brother or father–son relationships. In the barrio (calpolli) of
Molotla (probably in nearby Yauhtepec), census data revealed roughly onethird nuclear families to two-thirds joint families, while in the Tlacatecpan
barrio (calpolli) of Tepoztlan the ratio was quite different, with slightly more

197

198

Aztec Society and Culture
than half of the families of the nuclear variety and the remaining households
consisting of joint families (Carrasco 1976). Within Tlacatecpan, the general capolli residents were organized primarily into nuclear families (about
two-thirds), while those persons attached to the noble house of the calpolli
lived primarily in joint households (about two-thirds). A perhaps well-known
and strategic advantage of forming smaller nuclear households in the first
instance was the allocation of land by household; an advantage for forming joint households in the noble house was the consolidation of labor and
resources under the local tecuhtli.
These and similar census data also provide quantitative details on the size and
composition of households. A few examples of analyzed household data appear
in the following table, indicating the presence of at least some joint households
in every case. Of particular interest is the wide variation reported for the central Mexican region generally (in the final entry of the table), suggesting local
adjustments to specific conditions, be they geographic, cultural, political or
social.
Location
Tepoztlan (Acxotla
barrio)*
Tepoztlan (Tepetlapa
barrio)*
Quauhchichinollan*
Tepetlaoztoc†
Central Mexican towns
generally ‡

Average No. of Married
Couples per Household

Average No. of Persons per
Household

1.1

5.4

1.8

6.2

2.1
1.3
2.93
(range 0.78–5.71)

7.2
6.0
–

* Data from Carrasco 1971.
† Data from the Codex Vergara (Offner 1984: 138).
‡ Data from Borah and Cook 1960: 97–98.

either establish their own household (if they had sufficient resources to do so)
or join an existing household with ample resources and labor needs to accommodate them. On one dimension, a household required a workable balance of
male and female labor, both for its own provisioning and for specific tribute
payments (such as textiles, which were produced by women). On another, the
different options of household formation “allowed the population constantly
to realign itself relative to available resources, especially land, thus evening out
the pressure on its resources” (Berdan 2005: 76).
Whether polygynous or monogamous, nuclear or joint, the household was
the individual’s most fundamental physical and social environment, providing
basic needs and support. Aztecs relied on this setting and these relationships
throughout their life cycles, from cradle to grave.

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

Life Cycle and Education:The Dynamics of Age
birth and naming
After a well-observed pregnancy (as discussed later), a person’s birth normally
took place under the skillful care of a midwife, who eased and supervised the
birth, bathed the baby, and disposed of the umbilical cord: a baby girl’s was buried by the household hearth, tying her to her lifelong household tasks, while
a baby boy’s was dried and deposited on a field of battle, dedicating the child
to life as a warrior. The midwife ritualistically introduced the infant to life as
a Mexica with warnings of the travails ahead in an uncertain world: “It is the
place of one’s affliction, of one’s weariness, a place of thirst, a place of hunger,
... a place of weeping” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 177).
The bathing and naming of the child were of utmost importance and took
place shortly after birth. The parents summoned a soothsayer, who consulted a
tonalamatl, or “book of days,” to reveal the fate and future of the newborn based
on the child’s date of birth in the 260-day calendar. “Good” days led to an honorable, fulfilling, and prosperous life, while “bad” days foretold a life of drunkenness, gambling, and poverty (see Chapter 7). The influence of “bad” days could
be muted by naming the infant up to four days after the actual birth day – hence
the importance of consulting a soothsayer. Once a propitious day was selected,
the midwife ritually bathed the baby in the house’s courtyard with the infant’s
relatives as witnesses. If a boy, the child was given the symbols of his gender and
future: a cloak, loincloth, tiny shield, a bow, and four arrows. If a girl, she was provided with the symbols of her gender and her associated lifelong duties: a tunic,
skirt, petite spindle whorl, batten, basket, spinning bowl, skeins, and shuttle. The
child’s name was then announced, young children running off and shouting the
new name for all in the community to hear.These rituals were followed by more
or less extravagant feasting by the attendant adults, depending on their means.
A person’s name, regardless of rank or gender, often reflected his or her birth
date in the tonalamatl, such as Ome Quauhtli (Two Eagle),Yey Ehecatl (Three
Wind), or Macuilli Tochtli (Five Rabbit). Other names could also be given,
although it is not known how many names a person might simultaneously
or sequentially carry. These names might be martial, poetic, or even humiliating and could refer to some physical or personality characteristic obvious at
some point in a person’s life (Lockhart 1992: 118). There were discernible differences in naming by gender. A woman, for instance, might enjoy the name
Quiauhxochitl (Rain Flower) or Miauaxiuitl (Turquoise Maize Flower), and
at least in colonial times, a woman’s name often denoted her birth order (as in
Ana Tiacapan: Ana Eldest).12 Birth order was not usually indicated in a man’s
name, despite the distinct social superiority of an eldest son. A man might be
honored with the name Quauhcoatl (Eagle Serpent),Tequani (Fierce Beast, lit.
“People Eater”), or Ocelopan (Jaguar Banner) (Anderson and Schroeder 1997:
135, 139). Most names did not denote social status, although some did, such as

199

200

Aztec Society and Culture
Motecuhzoma (Our Angry Lord) or names augmented by an important title
like Tlacatecuhtli or Chichimecatecuhtli. Some names referred to a person’s
individuality or some notable life event: thus the name Motecuhzoma, speculates the Dominican Diego Durán (1971: 424), was bestowed on the second
imperial ruler of that name when he scowled at his naming ceremony. It is
not known to what extent other names were drawn from unique situations,
although colonial names such as Magdalena Necahual (Abandoned One) and
Gabriel Tomiquia (The Death of Us) are suggestive of lively and creative preconquest naming (Lockhart 1992: 120–121). Native names or parts of names
survived the Spanish conquest, often as surnames combined with Christian
given names when a person was baptized. So we see names such as doña María
Tonallaxochiatl (Mary Flowery Water of Summer), Francisco Tlamaceuhqui
(Francis Penitent), Juan Tzonen (John Hairy), Martín Huitzilcoatl (Martin
Hummingbird Serpent), and Pedro Tochtli (Peter Rabbit), as well as occupationally suggestive names such as don Martín Coyolchiuhqui (Martin Bell
Maker) and Juan Tlaxcalchiuhqui (John Tortilla Maker, or Baker) (Anderson
et al. 1976: 66–67, 84–85, 126–127; Cline and León-Portilla 1984: 79; Lockhart
1992: 120–121). If a person carried a native title, that was added to the existing
name and apparently superseded other names, at least in the colonial period
(yielding, e.g., Martín Tlacuchcalcatl and Bartolomé Atempanecatl; Anderson
et al. 1976: 84–85, 92–93; Cline and León-Portilla 1984).

childhood and education
Among the Aztecs, childhood was largely a time of preparation for adulthood.
This involved enculturation into accepted social mores, practical training in
occupational skills, instruction in ritual activities and responsibilities, and, for
men, the honing of martial arts.
A person’s initial education and training took place within his or her natal
household, boys learning mainly from their fathers and girls from their mothers.
Of primary importance was the instilling of proper values and rules of behavior,
as seen for noble children in Case 6.4. Whether for boys or girls, moderation,
obedience, and a diligent work ethic were paramount in living a proper Aztec
life. If one’s fate or personal decisions led one down a different path, then only
misery and poverty awaited. “Exemplary” virtues were instilled in a child from
the earliest age and thenceforth reinforced with frequent admonitions and,
when those failed, corporal punishment, including piercing with sharp thorns,
beatings, and a chile-fire treatment meted out to children at different ages for
being incorrigible, rebellious, negligent, or sloppy in their work (Berdan and
Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folios 58v–60r; Figure 6.7). Lengthy admonitions included
humiliating young offenders through comparisons with the neighboring Otomí:
“[T]hou art a real Otomí, a miserable Otomí, a green-head, a thick-head, a big
tuft of hair over the back of the head, an Otomí blockhead” (Sahagún 1950–
1982: book 10, 178). While punishments and admonitions seem to dominate

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

Figure 6.7. Childhood punishments and tasks, ages 11–14. (From Berdan and Anawalt
1992: vol. 4, folio 60r.)

the ethnohistoric record, there are also indications that parents highly valued
and protected their offspring. For instance, a child in the womb was called “the
precious greenstone, the precious quetzal feather,” and during the New Fire
ceremony every fifty-two years “children were nudged and pinched to be kept
awake: should they sleep they could turn into mice” (Clendinnen 1991: 180).

201

202

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 6.4 The Exemplary Life
What did it take to behave as a proper Aztec? What moral codes were taught
to children and expected of adults? Because of its elite nature, our documentation tells us more about nobles than commoners, but some of these codes of
conduct for the “exemplary life” are so broad that they probably applied generally to any Aztec (except for the noble admonishment not to behave like a
commoner).A noble son was exhorted by his father to be obedient, respectful,
and humble. Specifically, he should:
always be moderate and prudent in food and drink;
be peaceful and non-vindictive toward others;
go about tranquilly, not jumping about;
speak slowly and deliberately;
always be alert to someone’s bidding;
not stare at someone;
not gossip;
not dress vainly or sloppily;
not sleep excessively and not waste time.
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 87–92, 121–124)
Some of these expectations appear to be at variance with actual adult noble
behavior. While surely no self-respecting noble would appear in public in
sloppy dress, he most certainly did not hesitate to be flamboyant and extravagant in his appearance.
A ruler’s daughter was advised of these same values, as they applied to her
social roles. She was to:
protect her noble lineage and not bring dishonor upon herself or her noble
ancestry;
take care with her womanly tasks: spinning, weaving, and cooking;
be devout to the gods;
arise early and work diligently;
not lower herself, behaving like a commoner.
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 93–98)

The last admonishment is significant. Since a noblewoman would be
expected to manage a noble household, she should not bother with “the
herbs, the wood, the strands of chile, the cakes of salt, the nitrous soil”
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 96). She had plenty of commoner servants
and slaves around to take care of those types of chores.

Children of both genders and all social levels were trained to contribute
economically, politically, and/or religiously to their households and communities. For noble boys, this might include preparation for anticipated political
or priestly roles or education in a craft; commoner boys were expected to
carry on their family’s occupation, whether farming, fishing, making pottery

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
or a similar product, manufacturing a luxury commodity, or engaging in trade.
Military training was mandatory for boys of all social ranks. Girls of every social
status mastered spinning and weaving, and commoners at least learned other
household skills such as cooking. Some contributed to specialized production
activities if they were members of a craft-producing household. In keeping
with the “good” characteristics of noblewomen (Sahagún 1950–1982: book
10, 45–50), noble girls would have had to master the management of complex
households and their attendant interpersonal conflicts and idiosyncrasies.
Expectations of children’s duties and responsibilities increased with age,
and children of both genders diversified their contributions each year. The
Codex Mendoza (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. III, folios 58r–60r) documents this year-by-year growth for commoner boys and girls in a lakeside
setting.13 Beginning at age 4 boys carried water and subsequently helped
their fathers carry loads (age 5), attend the market (age 6), and fish (age 7).
By age 13 they were capable of plying a canoe, and by 14 they could adeptly
fish from a canoe. From age 4 to 7 a girl learned to spin fibers. By age 12 she
could sweep the house, by 13 she was a capable cook, and by 14 she had mastered the art of weaving (see Figure 6.7; Case 1.3). Depending on the household occupation, other commoner children might have learned to farm or
produce a craft.14
Not all education took place in the home. Noble boys attended a priestly
school (calmecac) from perhaps an early age, but at least by age 15.15 These
schools were attached to temples, and studies included history, calendrics,
songs, orations, and hieroglyphic writing, which was said to serve as the basis
for mastering the mechanical, military, astrological, religious, and legal curriculum (Durán 1971: 293).16 Additionally, martial arts were emphasized in the
calmecac, as all Aztec men were expected to be valiant and committed warriors.
Also by age 15, commoner boys attended telpochcalli (youth’s house) attached to
their calpolli, where the emphasis was on military training. For both noble and
commoner youth, this military training included some on-the-job experience:
“And then they took him to the wars.... And they taught him well how to
guard himself with a shield; how one fought; how a spear was fended off with
a shield. And when a battle was joined ... they taught him well and made him
see how he might take a captive” (Sahagún, 1950–1982: book 8, 72).
In addition, instruction in proper religious observances was given to youthful Aztecs, all of whom were required to attend a cuicacalli, or “house of song,”
reportedly between the ages of 12 and 15. There, they learned to sing, dance,
and play musical instruments that were integral to the endless round of religious ceremonies: “Not only were song and dance essential to the proper
performance of most religious rituals and ceremonies, but a vast amount of
information was contained in the songs themselves” as they praised the gods,
recounted tales of creation, and explained life, death, and the relationships and
obligations between mortals and gods (Berdan 2005: 95).

203

204

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 6.8. A young couple tying the knot in marriage. (From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4,
folio 61r.)

Early on, children were integrated into the social, economic, and religious
realms of Aztec life. They not only prepared for their futures; but as both children and youths they also directly served their families and communities. In
calmecac and telpochcalli, young men were required to maintain the schools themselves, offer penance (to maintain good relations with the gods), and, especially
in the telpochcalli, provide community service by working fields, building walls,
and maintaining canals. Some infant girls were dedicated to service in a temple
where they later served as young maidens, then leaving to wed and raise families (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 246). Children and youths had essential roles
in specific ceremonies. During the month of Atl caualo, for instance, children
were ritually sacrificed to the rain god Tlaloc to ensure rain. Perhaps related

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
to such a ceremony, a minimum of forty children’s skeletons were buried in
an offering (no. 48) at the Tenochtitlan Templo Mayor, mute evidence of their
sacrifice (López Luján 2005: 148–157). The children ranged in age between 2
and 7, with twenty-two males, six females, and the remaining of undetermined
sex. The interpretation of this excavated offering is not entirely straightforward. It may not represent a monthly ceremonial offering, since ethnohistoric
statements of child sacrifice mention far fewer victims; López Luján (2005:
155) offers the interesting suggestion that these individuals were sacrificed to
propitiate Tlaloc during the great mid-fifteenth-century drought and hence
represent a special-purpose sacrifice. Furthermore, many of the children suffered malnutrition and various illnesses in life, and perhaps that influenced
their selection. Children and youth were instrumental in other ceremonies
as well,17 especially performing as central actors during the month of Izcalli,
when they were essentially initiated into ritual life, forced to drink pulque, and
“stretched” to ensure their robust growth into adulthood (see Chapter 7).

adulthood: men and women in complementary r O L E S
It was considered that girls at around age 15 and boys around age 20 were
prepared to assume adult roles and responsibilities. In short, they were ready
to wed, form their own families, and undertake their life’s work and duties.
Weddings were complex affairs, involving a cast of characters that included
not only the bride and groom, but also matchmakers, astrologers, and a wide
array of relatives from both sides.18 There was a considerable amount of consulting, feasting, gift giving, drinking, and dancing involving both families,
accentuating the ties to be forged between these groups. The elaborateness of
these events and festivities varied with the wealth of the household, those of
nobles including copious amounts of cacao, flowers, tobacco, and food. Elderly
relatives took center stage in these ceremonies: they did not spare in offering
very, very lengthy speeches and admonitions to both bride and groom about
their future obligations. The couple and their households became linked: in a
manner reminiscent of “bride capture,” the young woman was carried by the
groom’s female relatives to his house, where matchmakers literally tied the
knot, binding their garments together (Figure 6.8). Symbolically and socially
bound, the young couple began the next phase of their lives: establishing a
family (often within an existing family), rearing children, and devoting themselves to myriad household and community responsibilities.
In many societies men and women play more or less significant roles in
different settings, with men predominating in “public” spheres and women in
“private” (or household) spheres of life. On the surface this appears to have
been largely the case with the Aztecs, especially in terms of gender-based division of labor.Yet as in other aspects of Aztec life, this was far from cut-and-dried.
These were not exclusive spheres of life; indeed, the overlap and parallelism
of male and female roles were such that it is worth questioning the “public”

205

206

Aztec Society and Culture
and “private” distinction (see Brumfiel 1991b: 224–225; Burkhart 1997: 52).
Both men and women reared children at home, contributed to craft production, bought and sold in the marketplaces, sang and danced at community and
household ceremonies, were candidates for sacrifices, and held positions of
community-wide authority.
The hallmarks of the male–female division of labor were highlighted at
a child’s birth, as seen earlier in the chapter, as both male and female infants
were given miniature symbols of their future work. Women bore and raised
children, spun and wove cloth, cooked, and cleaned the dwelling (or managed
the cooking and cleaning, if they were noblewomen).19 These were largely
house-bound tasks. Men were, among other things, farmers, fishermen, craftsmen, scribes, merchants, teachers, priests, and political administrators. The
activities associated with these roles tended to take them from their homes,
although this is an oversimplification: chinampa farmers worked fields very
close to home, craftsmen often worked in their household patios and rooms,
and a ruler often conducted business in his own palace, albeit in nondomestic
areas of his sprawling dwelling. Women’s activities were more diversified than
at first appears, since they also participated in farming, trading, teaching, and
politics, some becoming exalted rulers in their own right20 (see Chapter 5).
Some women became priestesses and teachers, and some reached important
heights in the pochteca, or merchant, hierarchy (Kellogg 1997: 127–132).Women
made significant contributions to craft-producing households (see Case 4.2),
and women were midwives, curers, and matchmakers. On the basis of archaeological evidence, Elizabeth Brumfiel argues that women in some Postclassic
Basin of Mexico communities shuffled their activities to include more farming and less weaving (1991b: 234–236). This suggests flexibility in women’s
activities and routines, something of premium value in a society where men
were often called to military service and hence gone from the home front for
potentially long periods of time, leaving their wives to manage all aspects of
their households (Kellogg 1997: 129).21
Rather than dividing the Aztec world into public and private spheres, it is
more useful to employ the concept of gender parallelism: men and women
undertook many of their daily activities in a parallel and complementary fashion, reinforcing each other’s obligations and contributing to common overall
goals (Burkhart 1997; Kellogg 1997). We have already seen that the bilateral
kinship structure reinforced gender complementarity: the backgrounds of
both father and mother were instrumental in determining a child’s birthright,
and both men and women could inherit and pass on property.
In a broader sense, gender complementarity was consistent with the general philosophical orientation of the culture, expressing “parallel structures of
thought, language, and action in which males and females were conceived of
and played different yet parallel and equally necessary roles” (Kellogg 1997: 125).
This complementarity applied not only to mere mortals but also to semidivine

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
rulers (as “the father, the mother” of their domains) as well as the ultimate
creator god(s), a celestial pairing of male and female. It especially permeated
the military ethos of the Aztec world. While men fought wars on battlefields,
women fought their own battles in giving birth – in military terms, a successful
birth was described as taking a prisoner, a woman’s death in childbirth equated
to being captured and killed. Men who died on the battlefield or under the
sacrificial knife accompanied the sun from its rising in the east to its zenith;
women who died in childbirth also enjoyed the solar journey, from the sun’s
zenith to its setting in the west. And while men fought in distant parts, their
wives helped them at home by diligently conducting rituals and sweeping to
purify their house. Her sweeping and rituals at home were inextricably linked
to his success on a distant field of battle (Burkhart 1997: 33–41): “As her broom
conquered dirt, would his sword conquer enemy soldiers?” (Burkhart 1997: 37).
Some female deities (e.g., Toci, Tlazolteotl, Cihuacoatl, and Ilamatecuhtli; see
Chapter 7) carried shields and brooms or weaving battens as integral parts of
their symbolic paraphernalia. Mortal women also wielded brooms and battens
as analogies of their husband’s weapons. In a 1473 real-world conflict already
mentioned,Tlatelolcan women threw brooms and general filth at Mexica warriors and taunted them with their weaving battens, their symbolic weapons of
choice. Noble women’s names could also be militaristic in meaning, as with
Yaocihuatl (Enemy Woman) and Chimalmantzin (Revered Shield Offerer)
(Schroeder 1992: 58, 61). Both men and women, therefore, contributed practically and symbolically to the militaristic goals of the Empire.
Men and women shared obligations in other arenas as well. Both contributed materially to household production and tribute demands (with the massive payments in textiles produced by women); both participated in obligatory
religious rituals at home and in the altepetl at large; both served as specialists for
essential economic, social, political, and religious needs. Therefore, both men
and women throughout their adult lives engaged in diverse activities and fulfilled necessary obligations that provided for their own contentment (or not)
and contributed to their world’s overall well-being, from household to empire
to the realm of the supernatural.
Some individuals outlasted the greatest threats to Aztec life. A fortunate man
escaped death or capture on the battlefield; a fortunate woman survived the
dangers of childbearing. People of both genders recovered from illnesses, accidents, or wounds. For all of them, the life of an elderly person, with its special
duties and benefits, awaited. Elderly men and women played defined roles in
Aztec society: most importantly, they were frequently called upon to transmit
their knowledge and wisdom to younger generations, often at life cycle events.
Expected to set admirable examples, the revered old man “relates ancient lore;
he leads an exemplary life,” while the revered old woman was “a manager, a
shelter” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 11). Conversely, aged persons who did
not fulfill these expectations were described as liars and deceivers. A respected

207

208

Aztec Society and Culture
older person was also honored by his or her descendants as “the originator of
good progeny” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 5). Such elder individuals, reaching age 70, were accorded special privileges, particularly the right to be served
copious quantities of pulque (to the point of intoxication) by their younger
relatives (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folio 71). For well-lived Aztecs, with
age came respect and freedom from at least this social restriction.

life, death, and the afterlife
The Aztecs believed that life and death were intimately and endlessly intertwined. On one level, humans lived courtesy of divine intervention. After the
creation of the fifth sun (see Case 7.1), the god Quetzalcoatl descended into
the underworld to retrieve the bones of a prior humanity that had been lost
in the monstrous flood that ended the fourth world. Presiding over the underworld (Mictlan) were Mictlantecuhtli and Mictlancihuatl, Lord and Lady of
the Underworld. Quetzalcoatl negotiated with Mictlantecuhtli for the human
bones, for he and the other gods wished to see the new earth inhabited. The
Lord of the Underworld tried various deceits (such as offering the bones if
Quetzalcoatl could sound a conch horn, but the conch shell had no holes and
thus was silent; Quetzalcoatl enlisted worms to drill a hole and bees to produce
sound in the shell). Realizing that the underworld god had no intention of
releasing the bones, Quetzalcoatl stole them, and in his hasty retreat he tripped
and broke them (resulting in people of different sizes) but finally managed to
escape from Mictlan. He carried the bones to the paradise of Tamoanchan,
where the goddess Cihuacoatl ground them up and placed them in a jade
bowl. Then the other gods performed a sacrifice by shedding their blood over
the ground-up bones and thus endowing them with life. Humans were forever
indebted to the gods for life itself, and in payment of this debt they offered
their own sacrifices in abundance (see Chapter 7).
On another level, human life was sustained by three primary animistic
entities:22 the tonalli residing in the head, the teyolia (or yolia) in the heart,
and the ihiyotl in the liver. An individual Aztec was created on any one of
the nine celestial levels (see Chapter 7), with the tonalli breathed into the
person before birth (López Austin 1988: vol. 1, 209). A person’s tonalli “constitutes his temperament, gives him valor, and conditions his fate” (López
Austin 1988: vol. 1, 211). This was the most rational of the animistic entities,
consisting of several scattered bits and embodying one’s fate, reputation, and
name – it was no accident that the days in the ritual calendar were called
tonalli. The teyolia was the animistic entity most closely linked to the Spanish
Christian soul and was believed to survive after death. Located in the heart,
it was associated with knowledge, vitality, feeling, and affection. The ihiyotl,
centered in the liver, embodied passions; it provided the “good” person with
positive vigor and burdened the “bad” person with hate and insanity (López
Austin 1988: vol. 1, 192).

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life
Upon death, the several parts of the tonalli had to be reintegrated, and the
teyolia needed to be helped on its afterlife journey. The fate of the ihiyotl is
not as clear, although it appeared to leave the deceased and “haunt” the living,
rather in the manner of a malicious ghost.
The afterlife awaiting an Aztec individual was determined by the manner of
his or her death. An infant not yet weaned was simply returned to the heavenly
layers to be “recycled.” Others were destined for one of three afterlives. Mictlan,
or the underworld, was the destination of persons dying an ordinary death; the
journey was long and arduous, entailed nine levels, and required four years.The
Sky of the Sun (Tonatiuh Ilhuicatl) was the glorious afterlife for those perishing
on the battlefield or sacrificed to the sun, as well as for women dying in childbirth; this journey required eighty days.23 The third resting place, Tlalocan, was
a verdant paradise awaiting those who died from water-related causes (López
Austin 1988: vol. 1, 318–321; 1997). Beyond the manner of death, social status
may have played a role in a person’s funerary and afterlife situation.
It was the teyolia that embarked on these journeys, and living persons
engaged in elaborate funerary rituals to ensure that these afterlives were successfully achieved. Historical sources describe these rites in some detail. For
journeys to Mictlan, a deceased noble24 was laid out in his home for four days,
at the end of which a precious stone was inserted in his mouth and a lock of
hair cut from his head, the hair boxed with other cut hairs from earlier in his
life (Chávez Balderas 2007: 83–84). His body was then wrapped in a cotton
shroud, his face covered with a mask, and the entire bundle adorned with symbols of the temple where he would be buried. The bundle was then burned
on a fiery pyre at the base of the temple. Sacrificed servants, slaves, and a dog,
to accompany and assist the noble in his upcoming journey, were burned on
an adjacent pyre.25 Other offerings, intended to ease the deceased’s journey,
included tobacco, flowers, pulque, paper, and cacao, and perhaps other rich
possessions (Figure 6.3).26 When the fire cooled, priests collected the ashes,
bones, and precious stone and placed them in the box with the deceased’s
hair. This container was then buried, and the noble’s survivors continued to
make offerings for four years for the journey to Mictlan. If a warrior died on
the battlefield, his body was not returned home. For the rite, an image of him
was crafted, burned, and presented with offerings to assist in his journey to
accompany the sun, an eighty-day journey that required continual offerings.
Fire, through cremation, provided the transformative energy to send the teyolia on its way to either Mictlan or the Sun (López Luján 2005: 177). If Tlalocan
was the destination, the body was buried rather than cremated: “The very act
of depositing them in the earth was a direct delivery of the body to the lords
of vegetation and of rain” (López Austin 1988: vol. 1, 321). Women who died
in childbirth were also buried, after the requisite waiting period of four days.
During these four days the woman’s family diligently protected the corpse,
since some of her body parts were coveted by warriors and thieves alike;

209

210

Aztec Society and Culture
warriors sought hair and a middle finger for strength in battle, and thieves
sought the woman’s left arm as a magical device to incapacitate their victims.
These women were buried in the patio of the Cihuapipiltin temple (Chávez
Balderas 2007: 77–79, 324).
Archaeological remains at Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor and nearby sites
indicate that the funerary rites were more complex and varied than suggested
in the historical record (Chávez Balderas 2007: 325). Several burials have been
uncovered in Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor precinct, concentrated at or near
Huitzilopochtli’s temple. In light of the wealth buried with them, the individuals cremated and then buried at or near Huitzilopochtli’s temple were
only of the highest rank.27
All but one of these were cremated remains, which were enclosed in a
variety of containers, from ceramic urn or pots to a basalt box (López Luján
2005: 173). Beyond the expected greenstone beads, bone and stone perforators
were commonly included with the ashes, along with a variety of high-status
luxuries.The one buried individual was an enigmatic young woman, perhaps a
sacrifice (Chávez Balderas 2007: 323–324). In addition, the Tenochtitlan House
of the Eagles (on the Tlaloc side of the Templo Mayor) housed a funerary
offering of a high-ranking noble who died of ordinary causes, assisted in his
journey to Mictlan by a dog and a piece of greenstone as well as other luxuries
(Román Berrelleza and López Luján 1999).
There remains the question of the role of social status in afterlife treatments. The documentary sources are equivocal on this matter. López Austin
(1988: vol. 1, 328–329) suggests that a tlatoani or other high-ranking leader,
possessing a divine force, may have received preferential funerary treatment.
The funerals of rulers were indeed grand ceremonial and public affairs. Yet
reportedly merchants and warriors who died in distant lands were treated
with similar funerary rites at home. Reflecting less economic affluence,
deceased commoners were accompanied by fewer goods, with an emphasis
on food.28 Fortunately, the archaeological record at the Templo Mayor contributes substantively to this issue. Exhaustively studying the Templo Mayor
funerary remains, Chávez Balderas (2007: 207) and López Luján (2005: 181–
183) conclude that burial locations were indeed tied to social status and that
preferential location of a burial and the value of accompanying goods would
have readily distinguished nobles from commoners. This should come as no
surprise, given the gulf between nobles and commoners in life. Still, even
high-ranking nobles went to the depths of Mictlan, although they traveled
in style.
Conscientious care of the dead by the living was an important attribute of
Aztec culture. Those who strayed from “the exemplary life” risked forfeiting
that care, hence experiencing an unprotected and hazardous afterlife journey.
Thus everyday behavior and pressures to conform were linked to one’s perceived eternal future.

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

Crime and Punishment
Not all persons strove for or achieved “the exemplary life”: some men fell into
drunkenness, thievery, and gambling; some women ventured into the same
vices, along with prostitution. Some persons committed adultery or homicide. Some noblemen in positions of power were dishonest or accepted bribes.
There were many levels of malfeasance, affecting individual households, the
state, and the gods.
Some antisocial behaviors disrupted domestic life. These especially included
nonconformance to the strict moral codes, disorderly conduct, adultery, and
drunkenness. As already mentioned, children received moral instruction in
their homes, where reportedly high standards of work and lofty expectations
of virtuous behavior were strictly enforced (see Figure 6.7). Children’s behavior reflected on their families; a ruler impressed on his daughter the need to “in
no way blacken, dirty, discredit the lineage” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 6, 93),
a consideration especially important to nobles. Apart from those who committed ethical transgressions, some individuals were persistent troublemakers,
and the women of Aztec households were charged with peacemaking and
maintaining order. In some cases, the troublemaking was too disruptive, and
offending individuals left their households and became vagabonds (see Berdan
2009a: 26), creating problems for the society at large since these persons then
sought alternative means of survival. Adultery was especially damaging to the
household social fabric and involved men and women, nobles and commoners, old and young (the last case exemplified by a story of two elderly women,
with hair like snow, who committed adultery with two young priests – they
explained that their husbands were less than satisfactory; Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 6, 118). Drunkenness was especially problematic on the domestic scene,
not so much in and of itself, but because of its secondary consequences. These
included adultery and thievery. Drunkenness, adultery, and theft apparently also
threatened the larger society, since they were all adjudicated at the city-state
level. Other crimes handled at that level included homicide, treachery, embezzlement, fraud, and bribery, as well as “cheating” on the battlefield. Stealing was
carried out by petty thieves as well as by sophisticated sorcerers.29 Homicidal
acts involved persons described as “murderers, highwaymen or transforming
shamans,” all dangerous and feared individuals (Berdan 2009a: 27).30 True, Aztec
society had a strong component of physical violence as expressed in warfare
and human sacrifice. But those activities were institutionalized and ritualized
and were considered to support the state; homicide was disorderly and chaotic,
tearing at the social fabric.
Honesty was a virtue, so it comes as no surprise that individuals engaging
in embezzlement, fraud, and bribery were strongly sanctioned. For commoners, this usually meant cheating and fraud in the marketplace, where measures could be compromised, consumables could be tainted, and cacao beans

211

212

Aztec Society and Culture
counterfeited. For instance, the “bad” bean vendor lied and mixed infested
beans with good ones, and the “bad” maize seller placed good grains over
spoiled ones in order to deceive the customer (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10,
66). At a higher level, professional merchants were accused often enough of
overpricing and swindling, and disreputable tax collectors faced charges of
extorting excessive tributes from city-state or imperial subjects. Some judges
and attorneys accepted bribes. On the battlefield, a warrior might wrongfully
claim another’s captive, confounding the system of social rewards associated
with such captures. All of these created problems for the administration and
legitimacy of the state (see Berdan 1999).
Other malfeasances challenged the social hierarchy. Sumptuary rules solidified the elites’ lofty social station, and commoners displaying these overt
trappings would have defied the visual messages of hierarchy, generating
social disarray. These were destructive offenses indeed. This does not mean
that commoners (especially wealthy merchants) did not possess or have access
to objects of wealth, if they had the wherewithal to do so (see Chapter 4;
Case 8.2). They did. Yet, to the point, wealthy traveling pochteca snuck back
into Tenochtitlan after successful commercial ventures and went about town
in unadorned clothing, surely efforts to maintain tolerable and perhaps even
amicable relations with the established nobility. The socially reverse situation was also problematic: a noblewoman who behaved “like a commoner .. .
like a field worker” was labeled “bad” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 46, 49).
Both nobles and commoners were pressured to maintain established social
distinctions.
Still other wrongdoings could offend the gods. Especially insulting was the
nonobservance of proper rituals. Such infractions challenged the omnipotence
of the deities and the harmony of the universe, so it was left to the gods to
punish the offenders. Since individuals could not be threatened with unpleasant afterlives for their worldly deeds, they were punished during their lifetimes,
especially with diseases or deformities. For instance, if someone broke the
rule of sexual abstinence during fasting, the god Macuilxochitl (Five Flower)
would visit that person with boils, piles, hemorrhoids, and venereal diseases; if
one provoked the ire of the Tepictoton (Little Molded Ones), one risked trembling feet, eyes, or lips, or lame and misshapen limbs (Berdan 2005: 103).
Worldly sanctions by mortal judges likewise were severe, and justice was swift
(Figure 6.9). Given the acutely physical nature of childhood punishments, it
comes as no surprise that sanctions for crimes by supposedly responsible adults
were likewise harsh.They were also typically very public.The death penalty was
common: convicted adulterers were usually stoned to death, thieves of farmers’
crops had their heads crushed, traitors were dismembered, and most murderers,
extortionate tribute collectors, thieves, violators of sumptuary rules, sellers of
stolen goods, and persons tinkering with land rights (like moving boundaries)
faced execution. Drunken nobles and priests were strangled, while drunken

Living as an Aztec: Social Status and Daily Life

213

Figure 6.9. Judges meting out
punishments to offenders. (From Sahagún
1950–1982: book 8, illus. 66. Courtesy
University of Utah Press. Reproduced with
permission.)

commoners faced that fate only on their second offense (the first time around
they were shorn, enslaved, and/or lost their homes; Berdan 2009a: 31).
Some practical variations of punishments were also instituted. In lieu of the
death penalty for murder or theft, a person might be enslaved to the victim or
victim’s family to replace the lost person or property. Enslavement also befell
the thief of crops from palace or temple lands. Judges accepting bribes were
warned and, if the behavior persisted, were shorn and removed from office.
In all of this, there were distinct differences between nobles and commoners. The bribery sanction excepted, nobles tended to face harsher punishments
than commoners for similar crimes. Nobles occupied pivotal political and
religious offices and were expected to be models of behavior; offenses (from
drunkenness to theft) by such august persons carried weighty consequences.
Indeed, nobles and commoners were tried in separate courts. There was also
some variation by city-state, such as differences in penalties for selling stolen
goods: execution in Tenochtitlan and enslavement in Texcoco. The extent of
this variation is not clear.
The magnitude of deviance and crime generally in the society is also
unknown. We might conjecture that it would be difficult for any given Aztec
to adhere consistently to this society’s strict moral and behavioral codes. In
the first place, each person lived in a personal milieu of crisscrossed roles and
expectations that conspired to create conflicting loyalties and uncertain behaviors. Should one behave according to one’s ethnicity or one’s polity? One’s
occupational guild or one’s altepetl ruler? Should the strapped farmer allocate
his few resources to feed his family or honor the gods? Should the newly
advanced warrior be humble or haughty? Should the local ruler’s decisions
favor his own ambitions, his subjects, or his imperial overlord? These sometimes conflicting strands of obligations and expectations were confounded by

214

Aztec Society and Culture
an individual’s predicted fate. According to the Aztec astrological tonalpohualli,
or “count of days,” a person’s ritual birth date was a predictor of his or her
future. Birth on a problematic day, for instance One House, could result in
irrepressible leanings toward gambling. If born on the unfortunate day Two
Rabbit, a person was all but doomed to a life of drunkenness with all its attendant difficulties. Birth on One Jaguar fated a person to commit adultery; born
on One Flower, a woman would become a harlot, and born on One Motion,
a vagabond (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 5, 11, 25, 85, 93–94). While an individual’s parents could select a neighboring day name, and the individual could
engage in behaviors to mute the predicted future, did these fates still operate to some extent as self-fulfilling prophecies, inordinately influencing some
individuals?
Given these pressures and the specificity of sanctions, infractions and crimes
were certainly well entrenched and must have been common enough. The
imposition of sanctions and penalties also provides us with an idea of those
aspects of life held dear by the Aztecs: moral propriety, orderly conduct, properly performing one’s duties (at home or on the battlefield), respecting another’s personal rights and property (including land rights), maintaining social
status boundaries, and diligently propitiating the gods. These gods are the subject of the next chapter.

C hap t e r 7
R E L I G I O N, S C I E N C E , A N D T H E A RT S

This day of nine dogs [Nine Dog] was dedicated to sorcerers, who were
those who transformed themselves into other things like animals or snakes
and other similar things. And for this reason on this day they were very
fearful and shut themselves up in their homes in order not to see these
things, that is, not to see men like that walking through the town.
Codex Telleriano-Remensis, folio 22r; originally composed by 1563;
translation in Quiñones Keber 1995: 268

It is difficult to disentangle religion, science, and the arts in the Aztec world.
Indeed, it is unlikely that it would have occurred to any worthy Aztec to do so,
as these realms of life were closely interconnected and meshed together almost
seamlessly. To wit, art served state religion and politics as well as individual
household rituals, and corporal ills were attributed to both supernatural and
natural causes. The visible world of humans and nature lay suspended between
supernatural levels above and below. The Aztecs were at once keen observers
and experimenters of the world around them and staunch believers in the
supernatural foundation and control of that world.
Understanding Aztec religion, science, and intellectual life is a daunting task.
The most detailed and vivid accounts of these spheres of life are found in the
early Spanish chronicles (especially those of Sahagún and Durán), in Nahua
legends such as the Legend of the Suns (Bierhorst 1992), and in native-style pictorial codices (see Chapter 1 for an assessment of these types of data). Recently,
important archaeological discoveries have significantly boosted our grasp of
religious beliefs and ritual behavior (Smith in press a, in press b). The most
extensive of these discoveries are those associated with Tenochtitlan’s Templo
Mayor, which have revealed not only the dual temple itself, but also other
structures (or portions of them) and thousands of ritually deposited artifacts in
more than 162 offerings (to date) (Matos Moctezuma 1995; López Luján 2005,
2006). Beyond this political and religious center of the Empire, other places
have yielded archaeological remains that pertain to ritual behavior and offer
215

216

Aztec Society and Culture
a sense of ritual diversity (e.g., Elson and Smith 2001; Brumfiel 2001; López
Luján and Urcid 2002; Smith 2002; Guilliem Arroyo 1999, 2008a, 2008b).
Additionally, ritual objects in museum collections are undergoing new scientific analyses and iconographic interpretations (e.g., Boone 1999; McEwan
et al. 2006; Martínez del Campo Lanz 2010; Umberger 1996, 2008;Taube 2000;
Olivier 2003).
Works of art have a physical presence but do not necessarily speak clearly
to the modern-day researcher, often leaving multiple interpretations in their
wake. They also frequently have little personal history to provide them with
even the smallest context. Interpretive disagreements are fairly common among
scholars, from the identity of the central figure in the famous Sun Stone to the
meaning of skull and crossbone motifs on altars and textiles (see Nicholson
1993; Klein 2000; Smith in press a, in press b).
Despite the often fragmentary, biased, and disputed nature of our information, reconstructions of Aztec religious and intellectual life forge ahead. In
some areas, a measure of agreement has been reached among scholars, as with
Nicholson’s (1971) classification of deities which is generally accepted and
followed here. Still, our ideas about beliefs, symbolism, and ritual are in considerable flux, especially due to the ongoing excavations in Mexico City that
are continually revealing to us new and often enigmatic ritual materials (e.g.,
Chávez et al. 2010).
CALENDRICS AND FATE

The Aztecs’ ceremonial life was based on specific constructions of calendrical time. Their calendars were of considerable antiquity and shared widely in
Mesoamerica, although specific calendrical dates and their meanings could
vary from city-state to city-state and regionally. Regardless of the specific calculations, the calendars addressed the timing of major agricultural and ceremonial events and gave substance to the Aztec preoccupation (or so it seems)
with fate.
Aztec time was cyclical and repetitive. The Aztecs, like their forebears in
Mesoamerica, ordered their temporal world into two interrelated calendars.
The solar calendar consisted of 365 days: eighteen months of twenty days each,
with five very uneasy, indeed dangerous, days at the end. It is not known how
they dealt with the extra quarter of a day each year, but they must have, since
monthly ceremonies were associated with rainy/dry seasons and agricultural
cycles (see Table 7.4). Other signal ceremonies were celebrated every eight
years and, most significantly, every fifty-two years.1 Markets were also linked to
this calendar, many held every five days (one Aztec “week”) and others, great
fairs, held once every twenty days (see Chapter 4).
The solar calendar was astronomically based. In addition to observing the
solar cycle, the Aztecs drew on long-standing traditions in observing and

Religion, Science, and the Arts
TABLE 7.1.

The 260-Day Ritual Calendar

217

218

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 7.1. A priestly astronomer. (From
Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 63r.)

recording comets, meteor showers, constellations, and eclipses. They placed
their own cultural stamp on these celestial phenomena: our Big Dipper was
seen as Tezcatlipoca, the Pleiades was their “Marketplace,” and part of our
Taurus was seen as a “Fire Drill.” Eclipses were desperately feared: during the
darkest moments of these celestial events, the people made blood sacrifices,
played musical instruments, and shouted loudly, making a great commotion
in order to stave off the possible arrival of dreaded celestial monsters. The
Aztecs’ intense interest in heavenly bodies can be seen in their commitment to
methodical observation techniques. Nezahualpilli, ruler of Texcoco from 1472
to 1515, would personally “study the stars, and he would go on the roof of his
palace, and from there he would watch the stars, and he would discuss problems with [knowledgeable men]” (Torquemada 1969: vol. I, 188; translation in
León-Portilla 1963: 142). Most often, these knowledgeable men were priests
who could use the elevated summits of their temples as practical and accessible
observation posts “where pairs of crossed sticks could be lined up as lines of
sight to celestial phenomena” (Berdan 2005: 155; see Aveni 2001) (Figure 7.1).
The Aztecs recognized a 260-day ritual calendar in conjunction with the
solar calendar. This ritual calendar was akin to an astrological device, where
the days carried heavy burdens – some good, some bad, fewer neutral. It was
formed by the meshing of the numbers 1–13 with twenty distinct day names,
yielding 260 unique number–day combinations such as Ome Ehecatl (Two
Wind) or Nahui Cuetzpallin (Four Lizard) (see Table 7.1). This tonalpohualli,
or “count of days,” was recorded in tonalamatl (books of days). The days were
divided into groups of twenty, each headed by one of the twenty day names
beginning with the number 1. Thus, in Table 7.1, the first group is headed by
One Alligator (Cipactli) and contains the days through Thirteen Reed (Acatl);
the second group begins with One Jaguar (Ocelotl) and finishes with Thirteen

Religion, Science, and the Arts
Death (Mizquitl); and so on. Each grouping was presided over by a patron
deity – for example, Quetzalcoatl ruled the One Wind grouping, and Tlaloc
reigned over the One Rain sequence. The patron deities imbued “their” days
with qualities particular to their own powers (as described later). The reading
of the tonalamatl was a complex matter, for these ritual almanacs not only contained the sequence of day names, but also depicted thirteen lords of the day,
nine lords of the night, and a butterfly or thirteen birds (from hummingbirds
to turkeys).
Specialists (most likely priests) schooled in the reading of these signs used
the calendar to predict the fate of individuals and determine propitious (and
unpropitious) moments for important events. Readers were consulted at critical moments in a person’s life cycle (especially birth; see Chapter 6), prior to
important events such as the best date for merchants to begin a long journey,
and during state crises. Predictably, Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin consulted his
“soothsayers” when omens foretelling disaster (the Spanish arrival) began to
appear (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 12, 3, 26).
A calendar round was created by combining the solar and ritual calendars,
yielding units of 18,980 unique days, or fifty-two solar years. For instance,
the Spaniards recorded August 13, 1521, as the day Tenochtitlan fell into their
hands. To the Aztecs, that same day was Ome Xocotl uetzi Ce Coatl (Two
Xocotl uetzi, One Snake) (Caso 1971: 343). The same combination of days
would next appear in exactly fifty-two Aztec solar years. Each of the fifty-two
years was designated by combining the numbers 1–13 with four of the day
names: Rabbit, Reed, Flint Knife, and House. Thus the year of Cortés’s arrival
on Mexican soil, 1519 in the Christian calendar, was Ce Acatl (One Reed) in
the Aztec scheme. This was followed by Two Flint Knife, Three House, Four
Rabbit, Five Reed, Six Flint Knife, and so on. Extraordinary events that happened in certain years were well remembered – for instance, the Rabbit years
were ever feared after the great famine that occurred during a Rabbit year in
the mid-1400s.
The Aztec conception and calculation of time was central to their fundamental beliefs about the structure and dynamics of the universe, the multitudinous deities, and the extravagant ceremonies performed by humans to ensure
their survival in this uncertain yet repetitive world.
DYNAMICS AND STRUCTURE OF THE COSMIC WORLD

The Aztec universe was a vigorous and lively place: it had a tumultuous past,
an unstable present, and an uncertain future. These dynamics were embedded
in a rich mythological repertoire that embodied the Aztecs’ most significant
cosmic principles (Table 7.2). These myths and principles were not so abstract
that they affected only the lives of priests and philosophers – on the contrary,
every Aztec person was entwined in these fundaments. In other words, beliefs

219

220

Aztec Society and Culture
table 7.2. Cosmic principles in the Aztec worldview
Cosmic principle

Representative beliefs
and myths

Everyday reality:
some examples

Dualities:
complementary
opposites

Ometeotl as creator
god; Tezcatlipoca
and Quetzalcoatl as
collaborators; life and
death
Huitzilopochtli vs.
Coyolxauhqui;
Tezcatlipoca vs.
Quetzalcoatl at Tula
World creations and
destructions; creation
of the fifth sun
Tezcatlipoca/Mixcoatl
and the creation of
fire; Toci embodying
fertility and warfare

Male/female
complementary
roles; life from death
through sacrifices

Perpetual divine struggles

Cosmic cycles

Juxtaposition of
Chichimec and
agricultural religious
beliefs and customs
Universe ordered on
vertical and horizontal
dimensions

Creation of cosmic trees;
importance of axis
mundi; qualities of
worldly quadrants

Sacrifice; warfare;
reenactments at
Templo Mayor
Cyclical time;
calendrical celebrations;
New Fire ceremony
Templo Mayor capped
by Huitzilopochtli
and Tlaloc; rituals
combining warfare
and fertility themes
Afterlife concepts and
funerary practices;
possible urban layouts

were not just distant abstract ideas, and myths were not disembodied stories;
rather, they had very real meanings in an Aztec’s daily life.
The prominent principle of duality was expressed in complementary opposites such as order/chaos, male/female, sky/earth, zenith/nadir, day/night, sun/
moon, flint/obsidian, fire/water, and life/death (Miller and Taube 1993: 81;
Olivier 2003). For instance, the ultimate creator god(s), Ometeotl (Two God),
was represented either as a single deity with male and female aspects or as two
separate interacting male and female deities (Ometecuhtli and Omecihuatl).
This complex deity presided over the celestial Place of Duality (Omeyocan)2 and
was the progenitor of the other gods.Two of their divine children, Quetzalcoatl
and Tezcatlipoca, were paired as collaborators and opponents, depending on
the circumstances. In one myth, these two deities combined their considerable
divine powers to tear apart the enormous primeval earth monster, a caiman or
alligator (cipactli), to create the earth and its rugged topographical features.This
monstrous creature was also known as Tlaltecuhtli (Earth Lord) (Figure 7.2),
and like the creator deity also combined male and female attributes. Similarly,
the divine rulers of the underworld, Mictlantecuhtli and Mictecacihuatl (Lord
and Lady of the Underworld), were a male and female pair. Another primary
exemplar of the duality principle was life and death, understood as generation

Religion, Science, and the Arts
Case 7.1 The Creation of the Fifth Sun, According to the Florentine Codex
The world had been cast into darkness. The prior world, presided over by the
goddess Chalchiuhtlicue, had been completely destroyed by a great flood. That
was the fourth in repeated cycles of worlds. But how would the fifth be created,
and who would preside?
To solve this rather serious problem, the gods assembled at Teotihuacan.
Their task was to create a fifth sun, a fifth world. One of them must leap into
a great fire, transforming himself into the new sun. This honor was to belong
to the lofty and arrogant Tecuciztecatl, who bravely volunteered. Also “volunteered” was the humble and scabby Nanahuatzin, who gladly accepted the
challenge. Both gods fasted and performed acts of penance for four days and
nights,Tecuciztecatl with quetzal feathers, gold balls, greenstone spines, and the
finest incense; Nanahuatzin with simple reeds and maguey spines and incense
made from the scabs on his own body.*
Finished with their acts of penance, the two honorees were arrayed by the
gods, Tecuciztecatl with a heron feather headdress and priestly jacket, Nanahuatzin with a paper headdress and loincloth. Precisely at midnight, these two
faced a blazing hearth (that had been burning for four days) surrounded by all
the gods. The next moment belonged to Tecuciztecatl, who was to leap courageously into the fire. However, his courage abandoned him. Four times he tried
to muster the fortitude to make the divine leap. Four times he failed. Frustrated,
the gods called on Nanahuatzin, who leaped unhesitatingly into the blazing
fire. An embarrassed Tecuciztecatl leaped in after him. Not to be outdone, an
eagle and a jaguar also jumped into the slowly dying fire, singeing the eagle’s
feathers and leaving the jaguar spotted.
The gods now waited. The tension mounted. Finally, light appeared all
around them, such that it was impossible to tell where Nanahuatzin would
actually arise. After much speculation, they saw it – in the east – at first a bright
red, then brighter and brighter, as the fully born sun revealed itself in all its
godly glory. It was Nanahuatzin, and he had accomplished what Tecuciztecatl
could not. As Nanahuatzin rose higher in the sky, an equally bright second sun,
as Tecuciztecatl, appeared behind him in the east. But the gods instantly realized
that two suns would overwhelm the new world, so one of the gods grabbed a
rabbit and hurled it into the second sun, muting its brilliance and creating the
moon (the rabbit can be clearly seen today).
But the sun and moon sat rigid in the sky, without motion. It was left to the
gods to sacrifice themselves to provide energy for the sun and moon to move
purposefully across the sky. Ehecatl (god of wind) slew the gods as a sacrifice.
But the new sun and moon still did not budge until he turned his fierce wind
on them. The sun and moon moved separately, the sun doing its work during
the day, the moon dominating the night sky.This was the world of Nahui Ollin,
Four Movement, presided over by the sun, Tonatiuh.†
This myth, like other Aztec myths, was more than an enthralling story. Its
impact on an Aztec’s life was considerable. First, the sacrifices of the gods set
the stage for sacrificial obligations on the part of mortals, who must likewise
keep the sun in motion with their blood offerings. In the words of Karl Taube

221

222

Aztec Society and Culture
(2004: 173), “The Aztecs replicated the original sacrifice of the gods with the
ritual offering of human hearts to the sun.” Second, eagles and jaguars, also
offering themselves to the fire, were symbols of Tenochtitlan’s most courageous
and accomplished warriors who fought battles and died for sun and state. The
eagles predominated, as the eagle was the first to cast itself into the fire. Third,
fire was recognized as an agent of transformation in the common practice of
funerary cremations. And fourth, the major ceremonies of Xocotl huetzi and
the New Fire “evoked the mythic birth of the sun at Teotihuacan through the
fire sacrifice of warriors” (Taube 2000: 327). In these contexts, cosmic myth
and everyday realities blended together and reinforced one another.
* Taube (2000) locates these penitential sites at the Pyramids of the Sun and Moon, and
the location of the fiery hearth at the now-called Ciudadela.
† Sahagún 1950–1982, Book 7, 3–8. The Legend of the Suns (Bierhorst 1992: 147–149)
provides a less-detailed and slightly variant version of these same cosmic events.

and destruction. Just as male and female were sometimes seen as two essential aspects of a single deity, life and death were not separate elements but
intertwined parts of a single endless process of rejuvenation. Life derived from
death, as exemplified by the sacrifices of the gods themselves at the creation of
the fifth and present sun (Case 7.1). Humans were enmeshed in complementary opposites in their everyday lives: most importantly, they established social
male/female relationships with well-defined divisions of labor, followed cycles
of day and night, and were surrounded by sacrificial offerings linking death
and the regeneration of life.
While gods sometimes collaborated, they also became embroiled in desperate supernatural conflicts – hence, our second major cosmic principle of
perpetual divine struggles. Numerous myths exemplify this principle. In one,
we return to Quetzalcoatl and Tezcatlipoca, who joined forces to create the
surface of the earth, but later, in more recent time, became determined opponents in the legendary city of Tula. Ultimately Tezcatlipoca, as a crafty sorcerer,
deceived Quetzalcoatl, who, defeated, departed from the city, journeyed to
the east, and either traveled out to sea or immolated himself and emerged as
Venus.3 In another myth, the Mexica patron deity, Huitzilopochtli, was born
in conflict. His godly mother, Coatlicue, was sweeping one day and placed a
feather tuft in her breast, becoming immediately pregnant. She had already
given birth to a daughter (Coyolxauhqui, or the moon) and the Centzon
Huitznahua (four hundred, i.e., innumerable sons or stars), who were outraged
(or perhaps threatened) by their mother’s condition. As Coatlicue stood on
the mountain of Coatepec, near Tula, her celestial children descended from
the heavens and decapitated her. At that moment, Huitzilopochtli emerged
fully armed with a powerful fire serpent (xiuhcoatl), destroying the stars and
dismembering his sister, casting her off the mountaintop. Every day any resident of Tenochtitlan might gaze on the mythic Coatepec, re-created as the

Religion, Science, and the Arts
Huitzilopochtli side of the Templo Mayor, and marvel at the dismembered
body of Coyolxauhqui in a massive monument at the base of that temple.
Not only were these monuments prominently visible, but the sacrifices performed frequently at Huitzilopochtli’s temple reenacted this story. Just as the
sun defeated the moon and stars every dawn, so Huitzilopochtli as the sun
defeated Coyolxauhqui and sent his sacrifice tumbling down the temple steps
to land on the sculpted defeated body of the goddess.
The third of these principles was that of repeated cosmic cycles. This principle stressed the cyclical nature of time and events, the basis for the Aztecs’
flamboyant annual ceremonial celebrations. At the highest symbolic levels, cosmic cycles were vividly represented by the five creations and four destructions
of the universe. Each of the first four creations was presided over by a specific
deity, inhabited by different types of humans, and, in one version, destroyed
successively by jaguars, hurricanes, fiery rain, and a great flood (Table 7.3). We
find Tezcatlipoca and Quetzalcoatl again as adversaries in these cosmic struggles, as each subsequently defeated the other to create a new world (see Olivier
2003: 94). The fifth and current world, or sun, was also doomed to destruction, this time by earthquakes (Case 7.1). Living in this fifth, fated world, the
Aztecs were keenly aware of the progression of time as it approached the end
of calendrical cycles, when the universe was especially vulnerable to destruction. They became particularly edgy at the end of a fifty-two-year cycle. At
that critical and stressful time, all the fires of the realm were extinguished and
household pots broken (ritual dumps at some sites in the Basin of Mexico
and Morelos very likely contain debris from these ceremonies; Elson and
Smith 2001). Pregnant women hid and commoners protected their faces with
blue masks. Deep into the night at cycle’s end, a solemn priestly procession
mounted Citlaltepec (Hill of the Star),4 where the priests waited tensely for
the Pleiades5 to cross the zenith at midnight, signaling the continuation of the
world for the next fifty-two-year cycle. If the stars cooperated, an individual
was sacrificed by heart extraction and a new fire lit in his gaping chest cavity. This fire was then carried from community to community, household to
household, until all the fires of the land were lit anew. Fifty-two reeds were
bundled up and burned, and new pots were fashioned for renewed household
use (a boon to the pottery industry). If the ritual failed, it was believed that
fearsome tzitzimime, as celestial monsters, would descend from the sky and
destroy humanity, thus ending the world of the fifth sun. Needless to say, these
momentous events, although deriving from the highest cosmic levels, affected
every individual, from loftiest noble to humblest commoner.
The Aztecs’ religious life reflected a complicated history, juxtaposing features from their Chichimec heritage with the agricultural demands of their
new homeland. After settling in the Basin of Mexico, the Mexica and their
Chichimec associates continued to revere their traditional deities and celebrate
their militant and hunting heritage. Indeed, their patron deity, Huitzilopochtli,

223

224

Aztec Society and Culture
Table 7.3. Tenochtitlan sequence of the five ages, or “Suns”
Name of sun

Presiding deity

Human
population

Fate of
humanity

Type of
destruction

Naui Ocelotl
(Four Jaguar)

Tezcatlipoca

Eaten by
jaguars

Jaguars

Naui Ehecatl
(Four Wind)

Quetzalcoatl

Transformed
into
monkeys

Hurricanes

Naui
Quiahuitl
(Four Rain)

Tlaloc

Transformed
into dogs,
turkeys,
butterflies

Fiery rain

Naui Atl
(Four Water)

Chalchiuhtlicue

Transformed
into fish

Great flood

Naui Ollin
(Four
Movement)

Tonatiuh

Giants
subsisting
on acorns
Humans
subsisting
on piñon
nuts
(acocentli)
Humans
subsisting
on an
aquatic seed
(acecentli)
Humans
subsisting
on wild
seeds
(probably
teocentli, wild
ancestor of
maize)
Humans
subsisting
on maize

To be
devoured
by
tzitzimeme
(celestial
monsters)

Earthquakes

possibly displaced the Chichimec hunting and war god, Mixcoatl (Cloud
Serpent),6 although Mixcoatl was associated with stars and Huitzilopochtli
was a sun deity (Miller and Taube 1993: 115–116). And Tezcatlipoca, a major
Mesoamerican god with many attributes (including fertility; see Olivier 2003:
99), assumed the name of Mixcoatl to provide fire for humans, lighting it
with flintstones (Olivier 2003: 111–112).7 Alongside themes of war and hunting
were those of fertility and rain, exemplified by the primary rain god, Tlaloc
(Figure 7.3), and a multitude of earth deities. Eleven of the eighteen spectacular
monthly ceremonies celebrated rain and fertility (see Table 7.4). This emphasis
on agriculture is also seen in the preponderance of offerings associated with
the Tlaloc side of the Templo Mayor in Tenochtitlan (López Luján 2005). It
is understandable that so many ceremonies and offerings would be geared to
an agricultural populace where droughts and famines were frequent enough

Religion, Science, and the Arts
(see Case 3.2). In a visual statement of the juxtaposition of warfare and fertility, the Templo Mayor was surmounted by two sanctuaries; the one dedicated
to Huitzilopochtli represented warfare, military conquest, and tribute, while
the one housing Tlaloc represented agriculture and water (Matos Moctezuma
1988). In some cases, a single deity embodied both warfare and fertility. For
instance, the goddess Toci, one of several fertility goddesses, also served as the
patroness of midwives. If a woman died in childbirth, midwives joined her
burial party, carrying shields and shouting war cries, staving off young warriors who sought the dead woman’s middle finger as a battle charm (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 6, 161–162). Similarly, the monthly feast of Ochpaniztli, honoring Toci, featured mock combat participants wielding weapons and shields,
along with brooms (Durán 1971: 234). These events reinforced, on a regular
and persistent basis, the juxtaposition and sometimes meshing of warfare and
fertility concepts, dual underpinnings of the Aztec worldview.
Despite the turbulent and seemingly chaotic relations among their gods,
the Aztecs’ universe was laid out in a quite orderly fashion. Its vertical dimension consisted of thirteen heavenly levels and nine tiers in the underworld,
separated by tlalticpac, the surface of the earth inhabited by humanity. This
intermediate level was also called cemanahuac (land surrounded by water) in
recognition that the caiman or earth monster was encircled by water. After dismembering that supernatural creature to form the terrestrial level,Tezcatlipoca
and Quetzalcoatl still needed to separate the earth from the multilayered heavens. To accomplish this, they transformed themselves into two enormous trees
and hoisted the heavens above tlalticpac, so that the earth was at the same time
separated from the heavenly levels and connected to them. The underworld
was also linked to the realm of humans, primarily through caves.8 These vertical domains were fundamentally different from their Christian counterparts of
heaven and hell. As Townsend (2009a: 121) points out, “[T]here was no juxtaposition of heaven vs. hell in this cosmological schema, for the levels of the sky
and those of the lower world carried no hierarchical moral value.”
The horizontal dimension of supernatural space was divided into quadrants,
each associated with a specific deity, tree, quality, year sign, color, and bird or
animal. A fifth dimension was at the all-important center, or axis mundi. The
northern quadrant was considered the “Region of the Underworld,” being
dry and barren, presided over by a fire deity, and associated with red or black
colors. East was the fortunate and fertile “Place of Dawn,” west the rainy
but fruitless “Region of Women” or “Region of the Sun’s Death,” and south
the rather uncertain “Region of Thorns.”9 These defined supernatural spaces
had distinct impacts on Aztec behavior. For example, if an “evil man” died,
he was buried facing north: “This was done . . . because of the terrible cold
there, they wrapped him in those thick blankets to give him warmth. With
him was buried food for him to eat, since the place was sterile” (Durán 1971:
392). It has been proposed that Tenochtitlan’s city planning recognized all five

225

226

table 7.4. Ceremonies of the monthly calendar
Month

Literal meaning

Datesa

Most important deities
worshipped

Primary religious
themes

1. Atl caualo

Ceasing of Water

Feb. 13–Mar. 4

Tlaloque,
ChaIchiuhtlicue

2. Tlacaxipehualiztli

Flaying of Men

Mar. 5–
Mar. 24

Rain/moisture/
agricultural
fertility
Rain/moisture/
agricultural
fertility

3. Toçoztontli

Little Vigil

Mar. 25–Apr. 13

4. Uey toçoztli

Great Vigil

Apr. 14–May 3

5. Toxcatl

Our Drought

May 4–May 23

6. EtzaIcualiztli

Eating of Etzallib

May 24–June 12

Sample of ritual activities

Papers hung on poles, fasting for
rain, tamales offered, dancing,
children sacrificed
Xipe Totec
Dancing, vigils, feasting; human
sacrifices (including gladiatorial
sacrifice with flaying, child
sacrifices); rewards presented to
outstanding warriors
Tlaloque, Centeotl,
Rain/moisture/
Planting rituals (in fields); flowers,
ChaIchiuhtlicue,
agricultural
snakes, and tamales offered;
Chicomecoatl
fertility
children’s rituals and sacrifices
Centeotl, Chicomecoatl, Rain/moisture/
Fasting, offerings, mock battles
Tlaloque,
agricultural
between youths and maidens;
QuetzaIcoatl
fertility
seed maize blessed; children’s
rituals and sacrifices; deity
impersonator sacrificed
Tezcatlipoca,
Celestial creativity/ Sacrifice of deity impersonators;
Huitzilopochtli
divine
dancing; feasting; incense, food,
paternalism; war/
and quail offered; children’s
sacrifice
rituals
Tlaloc, ChaIchiuhtlicue, Rain/moisture/
Fasting for rain; etzalli offering
Quetzalcoatl
agricultural
and eating; offerings made
fertility
to agricultural tools; deity
impersonators sacrificed

7. Tecuilhuitontli

Little Feast Day
of the Lords

June 13–July 2

Xochipilli,
Huixtochihuatl

8. Uey tecuilhuitl

Great Feast Day
of the Lords

July 3–July 22

Xilonen, Cihuacoatl

9. Tlaxochimaco

Offering of
Flowers

July 23–Aug. 11

Huitzilopochtli,
Tezcatlipoca, all gods
in general

10. Xocotl uetzi

Fall of Xocotl

Aug. 12–Aug. 31

11. Ochpaniztli

Sweeping of the
Road

Sept. 1–Sept. 20

12. Teotl eco

The God Arrives

Sept. 21–Oct. 10

13. Tepeilhuitl

Mountain Feast
Day

Oct. 11–Oct. 30

Rain/moisture/
agricultural
fertility
Rain/moisture/
agricultural
fertility

Singing, dancing, human sacrifices;
nobles
sponsor feast for commoners
Nobles feast commoners; singing
and dancing of warriors and
prostitutes; deity impersonators
sacrificed
Flowers offered and idols decorated;
singing, dancing, human
sacrifices, honoring of dead

227

War/sacrifice;
celestial
creativity/divine
paternalism
Xiuhtecutli, Xocotl,
Celestial creativity/ Fire sacrifice; impersonator of
Yacatecutli (patron of
divine
Yacatecutli sacrificed; ceremony
the merchants)
paternalism
of Xocotl pole: boys strive to
climb pole and retrieve image;
honoring of dead
Teteoinnan,
Rain/moisture/
Harvest events: fasting, singing,
Toci, Centeotl,
agricultural
dancing, offerings, feasting; deity
Chicomecoatl
fertility
impersonators sacrificed; mock
battles; overall cleaning and
repairing of houses, temples, and
public structures; rewards presented
to outstanding warriors
Tezcatlipoca,
Celestial creativity/ Celebration of the return of the
Huitzilopochtli,
divine
gods (including singing, dancing,
Xiuhtecutli,Yacatecutli, paternalism; war/
offerings, feasting); fire sacrifices
all gods in general
sacrifice
Tlaloque, Xochiquetzal, Rain/moisture/
Rain and pulque deities venerated
pulque gods
agricultural
with offerings and human
fertility
sacrifices; rituals on hilltops for
Tlaloque

(continued)

228

table 7.4. (cont.)
Month

Literal meaning

Datesa

Most important deities
worshipped

Primary religious
themes

14. Quecholli

Precious Feather

Oct. 31–Nov. 19

Mixcoatl-Camaxtli

War/sacrifice

15. Panquetzaliztli

Raising of Banners Nov. 20–Dec. 9

Huitzilopochtli,
Tezcatlipoca

16. Atemoztli

The Falling of
Water

Dec. 10–Dec. 29

Tlaloque

17. Tititl

Stretching

Dec. 30–Jan. 18

Cihuacoatl, all gods in
general

18. Izcalli

Growth, Rebirth

Jan. 19–Feb. 7

Xiuhtecutli

Nemontemi

Barren or Useless
Days

Feb. 8–Feb. 12

Sample of ritual activities

Fashioning of hunting gear; hunting
of animals; rewards and feasting
for successful hunters; deity
impersonators sacrificed
War/sacrifice;
Large-scale fasting, dancing
celestial
of warriors and prostitutes,
creativity/divine
processions, large-scale human
paternalism
sacrifices, feasting
Rain/moisture/
Fasting, fashioning of Tlaloque
agricultural
images, offerings to Tlaloque;
fertility
children sacrificed
Rain/moisture/
Procession; deity impersonator
agricultural
sacrificed; women ritually
fertility
harassed
Celestial creativity/ Feasting, fashioning of deity images,
divine
offerings; children raised by neck
paternalism
to ensure their growth; new fire
ignited
Evil days, fasting, penance; most
usual behavior curbed (quarreling
held to be particularly bad at this
time)

a

Dates are from Caso 1971: 341.

b

Etzalli was a porridge consisting of maize and beans.
Source: Compiled from Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2; Durán 1971; Nicholson 1971: table 4. The most detailed information is in Sahagún; a similar, more comprehensive chart appears in Nicholson 1971.

Religion, Science, and the Arts
horizontal dimensions, with the Templo Mayor as the “heart of the city.”10
Davíd Carrasco (1999: 36–39) argues that the urban layout of Tenochtitlan
reflected cosmological spatial arrangements, with its four major quarters radiating from that axis mundi (also see Figure C1.1).11 Yet the extent to which
urban planning was related to these beliefs is a contentious issue. Michael
Smith (2008), most notably, takes issue with the idea that Tenochtitlan represented a formal sacred place beyond its Templo Mayor. In his words (2008:
140), “[T]here is no way to determine whether the layout of Tenochtitlan, or
any other Aztec city, had specific high-level meanings to their inhabitants.”
In light of Smith’s (2008: 141) observation that “there currently is no way
to confirm or deny” cosmological symbolism as a basis for widescale urban
planning, we may continue to ask: To what extent was the built environment
of the terrestrial world, in which people lived their lives, based on their perceived cosmological arrangement of space?
DEITIES AND THEIR EARTHLY RETINUES

The Idea of Divinity
Aztec religion was polytheistic. Its multitude of deities presided over everything in the terrestrial world, the celestial realms above, and the dark regions
below. Deities often were represented in diverse guises, resulting in a seemingly
confusing array of gods and goddesses, sometimes with shared insignia. The
confusion ebbs when one realizes that individual Aztec deities were multifunctional and were capable of dramatic transformations emphasizing some of their
qualities at specific times and in specific situations: “Quetzalcoatl becomes
Ehecatl with the specific qualities of wind, or Tlahuizcalpantecutli, with those
of dawn” (López Austin 1993: 126). Because their circumstances changed, so
too did their garments and adornments, proclaiming their role and powers at
particular times. Deities also could unite to enhance their shared powers or
divide to form more than one deity (see López Austin 2001: 270–271). As an
example of the first case, we have seen that Tezcatlipoca took the name (and
hence the powers) of Mixcoatl to provide fire for humanity. In the second case,
Tlaloc, for instance, is usually represented singly but also appears in dual and
even quadripartite forms (Olivier 2009).
Deities appear to have been anthropomorphic, although Smith (in press
a) disagrees with this assertion.12 They had human-like torsos and limbs, and
faces with human-like features (Figures 7.2 and 7.3). They are shown standing,
sitting, and in action: Huitzilopochtli wields his deadly fire serpent; Tlazolteotl
grimaces in childbirth. They also possess “reason, will, passions, and faculties of communication among themselves and with humans” (López Austin
2001: 270).

229

230

Aztec Society and Culture
Gods were intimately linked with calendrical time. A different deity presided over each of the 13-day periods (trecenas) in the 260-day ritual calendar.
For instance,Tlaloc ruled over the 13-day sequence beginning with the day Ce
Quiauitl (One Rain), and Tezcatlipoca presided over the Ce Miquiztli (One
Death) period. The powerful forces associated with the presiding deities were
particularly potent during each god’s designated calendrical period, at which
time one should attend to that god’s needs with particular diligence.
The idea of divinity extended beyond named images. The word for deity,
teotl, sometimes modified other terms, whether they be material objects (such
as teoxihuitl, “precious turquoise,” or teocuitlatl, “divine excrement or gold”),
acts (such as teotlatolli, “divine speech”), or people (such as teochichimeca, “true
Chichimecs”). This suggests that the Aztecs “regarded the things of their
world – both transitory or permanent – as inherently charged to a greater or
lesser degree with vital force or power” (Townsend 2009a: 120). It is, therefore,
understandable to hear of Aztec priests making offerings to natural objects
and features such as flowing waters and exceptional rocks (see Case 5.2; Durán
1994: 367–370).

The Deities
All of this said, a pantheon of deities was recognized in Aztec religion, and we
can conveniently group these into thematic categories (after Nicholson 1971,
with a nice summary in Townsend 2009a: 116–117). These groupings encompass domains of celestial creativity/divine paternalism, rain/moisture/agricultural fertility, war/sacrifice/nourishment of the sun and earth, and, perhaps
befitting his signal importance, a category devoted to the god Quetzalcoatl.
The most overarching, distant deities were connected to celestial creativity
and divine paternalism, notably Ometeotl (the dual creator god), Tezcatlipoca
(Smoking Mirror), and Xiuhtecuhtli (Turquoise Lord, god of fire). Ometeotl
resided in the highest (thirteenth) heavenly level; this dual deity was embedded
in deep mythical time and had only the most distant relations with mortals. In
contrast, Tezcatlipoca possessed omnipotent power and had a strong presence
in Aztec daily life; he offered humans happiness and riches but also visited
them with plagues and grief (Olivier 2003). Since he was a capricious sorcerer and young warrior, and “could see all that took place in the world” with
his mirrors, his patronage was sought by humans in numerous life contexts
(Durán 1971: 99). Worship of Tezcatlipoca was especially widespread in central
Mexico during the Late Postclassic, being also prominent in Tlaxcallan, where
he was worshipped in the form of the god Camaxtli (Fargher et al. 2010). In
Tenochtitlan he was especially venerated during the public ceremonies of the
month of Toxcatl, but does not appear to have been a subject of domestic-level
worship (Smith in press b). And we are reminded that Tezcatlipoca figures in
several mythic accounts, either in collusion or in conflict with other major

Religion, Science, and the Arts

Figure 7.2. A recently excavated monolith of the earth deity Tlaltecuhtli, unearthed
near the Templo Mayor in Mexico City. (Photograph by Leonardo López Luján.
Reproducción Autorizada por el Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia.)

deities. Xiuhtecuhtli, also depicted as the Old God (Huehueteotl), was a creator god associated with fire, an element of great importance both physically
and symbolically: hearths were central to domestic life, temple fires were perpetually maintained, and the Aztecs’ most stressful ritual occurred every fiftytwo years as the New Fire ceremony.
Deities representing rain/moisture/agricultural fertility enjoyed the greatest
share of human ritual attention, understandable in a land where rain and agricultural fertility were daily concerns and there was a history of failures on these
fronts. Most of the monthly ceremonies were devoted to deities representing this theme, and the vast majority of the buried offerings at Tenochtitlan’s
Templo Mayor appear on the Tlaloc side of the dual temple, being dedicated
to that god. The deep significance of these deities in Aztec life is also attested
by the presence of ceramic figurines of at least Xochiquetzal, Chalchiuhtlicue,
Xochipilli/Macuilxochitl, Quetzalcoatl, and Xolotl in domestic settings
(Smith 2002). These deities represent human and agricultural fertility, curing, and renewal. In tune with this theme, the most common animal figurine
encountered in domestic contexts is the opossum, also associated with fertility
(Smith 2002: 107; López Austin 1993).
The rain god Tlaloc (Earth Embodiment, Figure 7.3) was the primary god in
this cluster, accompanied by his numerous little minions (Tlaloque), who carried water in jugs from high mountains and dumped it on humans and crops.
As with Tezcatlipoca, his impact could be both good (with nourishing showers)

231

232

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 7.3. Tlaloc, god of rain. (From Nuttall 1903: folio 34r.)

and bad (with excessive amounts of water that could drown people and flood
crops) (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 1, 17).Tlaloc’s female consort, Chalchiuhtlicue
(Jade Her Skirt), presided over fresh waters. A collection of other female deities,
as “mother goddesses,” symbolically represented the general idea of fertility and
more specifically presided over everyday matters of pregnancy and childbirth,
pleasure and feasting, and sexual desire. These included Teteoinan (Mother of
the Gods), Coatlicue (Serpent Skirt, the mother of Huitzilopochtli), Toci (Our
Grandmother), Cihuacoatl (Woman Serpent, who was a special patroness of
midwives), and Tonantzin (Our Revered Mother, who later became fused with
the Virgin Mary). Klein (2000) argues persuasively that these powerful deities
embodied creative powers and were tzitzimime.While tzitzimime were typically
described in colonial texts as destructive male celestial monsters, in pre-Spanish
times they were primarily female deities with the ability to prevent and cure
diseases. Stone platforms with skull and crossbone designs (apologies to the Jolly
Roger) were nearly ubiquitous in Aztec urban landscapes and were perhaps
used by curers and midwives in their beneficent rituals directed to these goddesses (Klein 2000; Smith in press a).
These were the major overarching deities of the fertility complex, but
there were also many gods and goddesses who presided over more specific

Religion, Science, and the Arts

233

Figure 7.4.
Macuilxochitl
presiding over the
game of patolli.
(From Nuttall
1903: folio 60r.)

realms of fertility: Xilonen (Tender Maize) was the deity of the young maize,
Centeotl (Sacred Maize) represented mature maize, and Chicomecoatl
(Seven Serpent) was the embodiment of seed corn. Mayahuel (Maguey)
was goddess of maguey; she nurtured four hundred children (rabbits) who
presided over the maguey’s premier product, octli or pulque. Three major
flower deities (Xochiquetzal [Flower Quetzal], Macuilxochitl [Five Flower],
and Xochipilli [Flower Prince]) also watched over song, dance, and feasting.
Xochiquetzal served as patroness of young mothers, weavers, embroiderers, and featherworkers; Macuilxochitl was patron of the palace folk and of
gambling and the game of patolli (see Figure 7.4); and Xochipilli was the
patron of painters and games. Xipe Totec (Our Lord the Flayed One) represented the germination of seeds and therefore agricultural renewal, and he
was celebrated during the month of Tlacaxipehualiztli, appropriately during
early spring.
The essential characteristics of the demanding gods in the war/sacrifice/
nourishment of the sun and earth category were their military emphasis and
need for human blood. They dominated realms of warfare, death, and sacrifice,
and represented powerful celestial bodies and the underworld. Primary among
these was the sun god Tonatiuh – all warriors were dedicated to serving the sun
“with the blood of their captives; and if they themselves died serving the sun,
they accompanied Tonatiuh on his daily journey from dawn to noon” (Berdan
2005: 135). Huitzilopochtli (Hummingbird on the Left) likewise represented
the sun and demanded similar sacrifices on the part of his Mexica warriors.
Other celestial phenomena also fell into this supernatural theme: Mixcoatl/
Camaxtli (Cloud Serpent/Lord of the Chase) was associated with the Milky

234

Aztec Society and Culture
Way, and Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli (Dawn Lord) was Venus as the morning star;
both were highly militaristic deities. The underworld (under the supernatural
rulership of Mictlantecuhtli, Lord of Mictlan) also falls within this formidable
group – a cluster of rather overwhelming gods who demanded the ultimate
sacrifice of their faithful.
In contrast to these aggressive and ravenous deities was Quetzalcoatl (Plumed
Serpent), provider of human sustenance and patron of the fine arts.Veneration
of this beneficent deity was ancient and widespread in Mesoamerica. He was
part creator, part fertility granter, and part Venus, and therefore embodied
aspects of all of the other three deity clusters. As Ehecatl (Wind), he presaged
the rains, and the numerous circular temples found throughout central Mexico
were dedicated to Quetzalcoatl in this guise. This god is also confounded with
a culture hero from Tula, Topiltzin Quetzalcoatl, perhaps the god’s mortal
representative on earth. Although Quetzalcoatl was widely popular, Cholula
held the distinction as a special place for his worship, indeed as a renowned
pilgrimage site.
Some Aztec deities served as patrons of ethnic, altepetl, calpolli, and occupational groups. For example, Huitzilopochtli was the famous Mexica patron
deity, and Camaxtli looked after the Mexica’s archenemies, the Tlaxcallans.
Yacatecuhtli was patron of the entrepreneurial pochteca, regardless of their home
city-state, and Xipe Totec was worshipped by the goldsmiths. Toci was especially revered by midwives and curers, wherever they lived. A group’s identity
was closely linked to its patron deity: the first act of a newly arrived group was
to erect a temple in honor of its patron deity, and its conquest was symbolized
by the burning of that temple by an invading force.
The Aztec pantheon was a dynamic one. As a conquering state, the Mexica
and their allies not only acquired subjects and resources, but also assimilated
their conquered subjects’ deities into their ever-enlarging pantheon.That pantheon was served by a great many priests and priestesses.

Priests and Priestesses
Every deity had its temple, every temple its own cadre of priests and sometimes priestesses and a bevy of lay assistants.13 Novice priests were trained by
veteran priests in calmecac schools – the several calmecac were associated with
different temples, and it is probable that the education in each school was tailored to the specific demands of each god and temple. Boys apparently entered
the priesthood at the behest of their parents, working their way up the priestly
hierarchy from tlamacazton (little giver of things) to tlamacazqui (young giver
of things) as they gained years, experience, and training. Some advanced to the
rank of tlenamacac (fire giver), priests assigned the formidable task of performing human sacrifices. The most dedicated and devout advanced to that rank
and were eligible for election to the supreme priestly ranks of Quetzalcoatl

Religion, Science, and the Arts
totec tlamacazqui (high priest of Huitzilopochtli’s temple) and Quetzalcoatl tlaloc
tlamacazqui (high priest of Tlaloc’s temple).
Girls could be dedicated to the priesthood by parental vows. The girl
was committed to a temple as an infant, her parents repeatedly reaffirming
their vow until she was older (although that age eludes us). Despite these
formal arrangements, a girl apparently could enter this vocation voluntarily (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 246). Most girls spent only a short time as
priestesses, leaving the temples with parental and calpolli permission to marry
and create families. Some, however, did make this a lifelong specialty, supervising and training the young neophytes as well as providing temple and
ritual services.
Priestly duties depended on age, experience, rank, and gender. The youngest priests performed menial tasks around the temples; the highest-ranking
priests performed human sacrifices and oversaw the great public ceremonies.
Priestesses wove and embroidered cloth for the deities’ images. A great deal of
time and effort was expended in maintaining temples and their godly images
and sacred paraphernalia: daily sweeping, decorating, fire maintenance, and
the offering of incense, not to mention temple repair and the upgrading of
images. These godly servants also engaged in an endless round of daily prayers,
penance, and offerings, including bloodletting. Head priests were entrusted
with the responsibility of training and punishing novices. Beyond the insular
life of the temple itself, priestly duties extended to the larger society. Priests
were central actors in the often-complicated, multifaceted, and flamboyant
monthly ceremonies; they taught noble youths in the several calmecac, served
as warriors on the battlefield (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folios 62–63,
65), made astronomical observations (Figure 7.1), and offered advice to rulers. The unity of religion and politics meant that priestly and political offices
often overlapped in theory as well as in the enactment of actual ceremonies
(see Chapter 5). Priests also interpreted (and probably supervised the writing
of) sacred books, linking the will of the gods and the duties of humans in the
larger, dynamic universe.
The innumerable priests and their acolytes were supported by state tributes,
temple offerings and gifts, alms, possibly dedicated lands and even the ability
to steal from the general public on certain ceremonial occasions. Temples had
“keepers” who managed their resource needs, also probably acquiring goods
in the marketplaces when necessary (Berdan 2007: 253, 256).
Religion commanded a large share of Aztec monumental architecture,
highly trained specialists, and the commitment of substantial daily and periodic resources. If Juan de Torquemada (a known exaggerator) can be believed,
Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor engaged five thousand servants (Caso 1958: 188–
189). If the priestly and lay cadres of the multitude of lesser temples throughout
the Empire were also considered, the human commitment to religious affairs
was indeed enormous. And priests were not the only sacred servants – masons

235

236

Aztec Society and Culture

a

Figure 7.5. (a) A priest offering incense. (From
Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 63r).
(b) A ceramic censer. (Photograph by Jennifer
Berdan. Courtesy National Museum of the
American Indian, Smithsonian Institution,
no. 033758.)

b

built temples and sculptors decorated them, farmers collected copal incense
and potters manufactured censers, stoneworkers fashioned sacrificial knives
and featherworkers devised fancy banners, and everyone paid tribute and participated in obligatory ritual events (Figure 7.5).
The Aztec supernatural world was at once threatening and benevolent –
and always demanding of its human occupants. The gods and their earthly
representatives made rigorous personal, institutional, and resource demands on
every Aztec individual. Daily life in practical matters was difficult enough, but
how did an individual Aztec deal with intense and relentless spiritual demands
and cosmological uncertainties?
GODS AND HUMANS: RITUALS AND CEREMONIES

Gods were creators. Humans were created. This important difference served
as the basis of deity–human relations, which stressed hierarchy, reciprocity,
and debt payment. To recognize and celebrate their deities, the Aztecs represented and revered them on earth through their images or effigies, specific
adornments, sacred bundles, dedicated rituals, material offerings, and human
sacrifices.

Religion, Science, and the Arts

Adorned Images and Sacred Bundles
Deities are depicted in pre-conquest and post-conquest codices, and their
physical images were housed in their designated temples and sometimes
removed for ceremonial processions. They were fashioned of stone, wood, or
dough (of which amaranth was a major ingredient).While their basic form was
important, special adornments and accoutrements gave these images their personalities and powers. For instance, specific skirt designs (especially skulls and
crossbones with occasional stars and knives) embodied the “essence and powers” of creator goddesses (Klein 2000: 19). Since the deities appeared in various
guises, their “garments and emblems constitute a code. Gods do not always
wear the same emblems and garments, because their position, acts, and circumstances in this world change constantly” (López Austin 1993: 126). Smith
(in press a) suggests that godly forces or spirits “took material form when
adorned with key elements of their costume.”The meaningful coded information would have resided with the priests, who were responsible for properly
adorning the godly images. This task was not only delicate, but also expensive:
their symbolic adornments were of the finest materials. Huitzilopochtli’s entire
image, for instance, was bedecked with precious stones and gold, and he wore
a necklace of golden faces and silver hearts and precious blue stones (Díaz
del Castillo 1963: 236). As religion and state were intimately intertwined, one
suspects that much of this wealth was supplied by the state’s coffers and statesponsored offerings. Indeed, for the 1487 Templo Mayor dedication, Durán
(1994: 336) states that “everything that the priests requested for the cult to
the gods and for the present ceremonies was provided” by tributes. In addition, a type of priestly female dress given in tribute was specifically “worn by
the young women and the old women who served in the temples” (Durán
1994: 204).
Godly paraphernalia also included sacred bundles, entrusted to high-ranking priests. These bundles contained deity-specific relics wrapped in cloth –
Tezcatlipoca’s reputedly enveloped a mirror and his leg bone; Huitzilopochtli’s
contained his bones and a loincloth. According to Olivier (2010, 58), divine
forces were embedded in these sacred objects.The same author (2010, 56) suggests that the people venerated these bundles more than they did the godly
images. Humans revered sacred bundles as means of communication with their
special (especially patron) deities. Huitzilopochtli, for instance, conveyed his
peregrination orders to the migrating Mexica through his bundle, which was
carried by an important priest. Sacred bundles also served as symbols of group
identity and played a significant role in the coronation of Mexica rulers, as the
ruler-initiate was awash in his patron deity’s symbolism expressed in his sacred
bundle.
Whether as adorned image or sacred bundle, the many deities of the Aztec
world were worshipped frequently and extravagantly – sometimes publicly

237

238

Aztec Society and Culture
and sometimes in homes. Ceremonies, although they varied from city-state
to city-state across regions, nonetheless conformed to established calendrical
cycles and followed prescribed formulas.

Public Ceremonies and Offerings
Public ceremonies reinforced religious beliefs through overt and communal
enactments that were repeated, predictable, and scripted: they translated cosmology into visible action. They also were often reenactments of the society’s signal myths. In some cases they were enlisted as instruments of the state,
exalting and demonstrating city-state and imperial power and dominion. The
most spectacular regular ceremonies were those performed each month (see
Table 7.4). Each of these public ceremonies was characterized by its particular
goal, sequenced activities, participants, and ritual paraphernalia. Despite these
variations, the ceremonies typically began with fasting14 and a vigil by the
participants (especially priests), followed by processions, singing, dancing, and
music performed with drums, conch shells, rattles, bone rasps, and whistles or
flutes (Figure 7.6). These colorful events often culminated in the offering of
animals (usually quail), incense, and gifts (typically food) and/or human sacrifices. In contrast to the initial fasting, these ceremonies frequently finished
with lavish feasting (Nicholson 1971: 431–433).
Offerings were given in the spirit of reciprocity, with the expectation of
some advantage, favor, or even military victory in exchange. Before going to
war, Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin ritually offered cloaks, jewels, feathers, and quail
to the gods in anticipation that they would grant him success on the battlefield (Durán 1994: 475). Other offerings were made through tribute demands
on conquered peoples; for instance, Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina required his
“friendly rulers” (read “subjects”) to provide precious stones and jewels to be
offered during a Templo Mayor renovation (Durán 1994: 227).The vast number,
fine quality, and exotic sources of the offerings surrounding the Templo Mayor
suggest that these materials arrived through special tribute assessments, longdistance trade, and acquisitions in marketplaces (Berdan 2007: 259). Other offerings, smaller ones of flowers and food, were delivered by local residents during
specified ceremonial events, especially those connected to the solar calendar.
As already mentioned, the majority (eleven) of these flamboyant ceremonies
were geared toward ensuring rain and fertility. Huitzilopochtli and Tezcatlipoca
commanded four other monthly ceremonies; in other communities, other
patron deities would have assumed center stage. Other calendrically based ceremonies included rituals added at the end of every four years (dedicated to
the fire god Xiuhtecuhtli); a ceremony called Atamalcualiztli (The Eating of
Water Tamales),15 which was celebrated every eight years by fasting, elaborate
dancing by costumed impersonators,16 and feasting on fruit tamales; and the
anxiety-laden New Fire ceremony every fifty-two years.

Religion, Science, and the Arts

Figure 7.6. A whistle or flute. Musical instruments were ubiquitous at Aztec
ceremonies. (Photograph by Jennifer Berdan. Courtesy Field Museum, catalogue
no. 241014.)

Certain more specialized rituals, with at least some public visibility, were geared
to the 260-day calendar and required the participation of persons of particular
status or occupation. For instance, maguey cultivators and traders celebrated on
the day One Rabbit (a pulque day), seamstresses and painters took the day Seven
Flower as their own, and merchants unabashedly displayed their wealth on Four
Wind. On One Flower, the ruler was expected to bestow gifts on singers, warriors, and palace workers. And on that same day, as well as on One Reed and One
Death, nobles enjoyed displaying their finery while dancing, singing, feasting, and
making ritual offerings. Prisoners condemned to death did not look forward to
One Rain and Four Wind, for those days were slated for executions.
Beyond these scheduled religious spectacles and more specialized observances, special events meshing civic and religious goals and activities occurred
sporadically. Coronations, royal funerals, the dedication of a major temple, and
returning troops all served as appropriate reasons for a public extravaganza.
Many of these required human sacrifices.

Ritual Human Sacrifice and Cannibalism
No other aspect of Aztec culture fascinated and shocked sixteenth-century
Europeans like the practices of human sacrifice and cannibalism. Perhaps it was

239

240

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 7.7. A human heart sacrifice. (From Nuttall 1903: folio 70r.)

the style of sacrifice that caught their attention, as the Europeans of the time
were not squeamish about eviscerating their enemies or displaying their heads
on pikes. The practice of human sacrifice, along with the worship of idols, also
provided the Spaniards with a justification for conquest, both military and
spiritual (López Austin and López Luján 2010).
These customs were deeply embedded in Mesoamerican cultures, with a
long history and broad distribution.17 Human sacrifice was enacted in a variety of ways. Most common was autosacrifice, in which penitents (frequently
priests but occasionally the entire populace) pierced fleshy parts of their bodies
with maguey spines or other sharp objects with the intent to draw and offer
blood to a deity. Blood was considered divine, and hence a potent sacred offering. Many ceremonies also required the ultimate sacrifice – that of human life.
Among these, the most common method was heart extraction (Figure 7.7).
But particular ceremonies had their own styles: the fire god was honored with
a fire sacrifice during which victims were cast into a fire before having their
hearts extracted; rituals during the month of Ochpaniztli were punctuated by
victims being shot with arrows; and children were drowned to propitiate Tlaloc,
their abundant tears viewed as a favorable omen. During Tlacaxipehualiztli, the
bravest captive warriors, armed only with feather-bladed cudgels, were pitted
against fully armed Aztec eagle and jaguar knights, and ultimately defeated and
sacrificed.
Human sacrifices had three primary ceremonial contexts: those that offered
deity impersonators, those that were designed to fulfill an individual or group
vow, and those that carried undisguised political messages.A deity impersonator

Religion, Science, and the Arts
took on the persona of a deity and at the moment of sacrifice was, in essence,
deified. In one of the most remarkable of these, an unblemished young man
was chosen to impersonate the god Tezcatlipoca. For a full year prior to his
sacrifice he displayed his godly attire and went about playing a flute. One
month before his sacrifice he was wed to four women representing goddesses,
the five of them then going about singing and dancing.Yet on the appointed
day he ascended the temple steps alone. His heart was extracted and offered
to the sun, and he was decapitated and his head added to the prominent tzompantli, or skull rack (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 68).
Other sacrifices were ceremonially presented as offerings by persons or
groups making a vow (and covering the expenses). In the most notable of
these, an upwardly mobile, ambitious, and wealthy merchant (pochteca) would
purchase a slave (man or woman), especially one skilled in song and dance.
Following a complicated sequence of display, feasting, and offerings, the merchant consulted a soothsayer for a favorable sacrificial day, on which he displayed and offered his bathed, well-treated, and beautifully adorned slave. This,
in essence, provided the merchant with a stage for parading his wealth and his
ability to ultimately dispose of, indeed destroy, that wealth (see Berdan 2005:
120–121). This activity has a certain resemblance to a potlatch,18 in that the
merchant exchanged wealth for social status.
As the Empire expanded, sacrificial events became more and more spectacular, involving increasingly large numbers of sacrifices. It was customary for
a newly selected ruler to mount a military campaign in order to bring back
numerous sacrificial victims for his coronation ceremony. Other wars yielded
captive warriors who were sacrificed en masse, and the dedication of a temple
provided ample motivation for the capture of enemy warriors for large-scale
sacrifices. Enemy, allied, and conquered rulers attended these displays of power,
certainly designed to intimidate those who still opposed the Empire and those
who might consider rebellion (see Chapter 5).
It is primarily with respect to these politically motivated sacrificial spectacles that the controversial question of the extent of human sacrifice has arisen.
The largest numbers recorded are for the dedication of the Templo Mayor in
1487: Durán (1994: 339) reports the astonishing figure of 80,400 captives sacrificed over four days, Torquemada (1969: vol. 1, 186) follows with 72,344, and
the Codex Telleriano-Remenses (Quiñones Keber 1995: folio 39r) depicts 20,000
warrior sacrifices. All of these figures are extraordinary, and almost certainly
inflated, simply given the practical limitations of such large numbers of sacrificial offerings, all still ritually performed. Michael Harner (1977) suggests that
some 250,000 persons were sacrificed annually in fifteenth-century central
Mexico (based on unpublished figures of Woodrow Borah) – an extraordinary
figure. Usual estimates are closer to 20,000 annual sacrifices, still probably high
(Berdan 2005: 124).Yet we remain adrift with this issue of scale, and archaeological excavations, while they do verify the practice of human sacrifice with

241

242

Aztec Society and Culture
osteological and material remains, do not aid in determining its extent (see
López Austin and López Luján 2010; Smith in press a).
Why did the Aztecs, along with their predecessors and neighbors, make
human sacrifice such an integral and intensive part of their ceremonial and
political lives? There are both native and scholarly explanations for this practice. If the Aztecs themselves could be asked, they would first mention the
necessity of debt payments to the gods, for the gods sacrificed themselves in
the creation of the mortals’ fifth sun (see Case 7.1). The reenactment of signal
myths reinforced this relationship with the gods; Huitzilopochtli as the sun, for
example, required nourishment in the form of human blood to continually
repeat his successful battle against the forces of the night and bring light and
heat to the earth. The Aztecs also recognized a close relationship between life
and death; human sacrificial deaths generated life in this endless cycle. In all
of this, humans were obligated to offer their most precious possession: human
blood, considered sacred and worthy of payment.
These beliefs necessitated and perpetuated the practice of human sacrifice. But some modern scholars have looked for other explanations. A materialist explanation arose in the 1970s, propounded by Michael Harner (1977)
and Marvin Harris (2011 [1977]). This approach, based on a search for natural
causes, proposes that the Aztecs’ lack of herbivores for protein necessitated
their practice of cannibalism and of human sacrifice to provide the bodies
for these nutrients. Harner asserts that rapid Postclassic population growth
reduced the amount of wild game available as sources of protein, leading to an
increase in cannibalism. I and other Aztec scholars believe this approach to be
misinformed and misguided.To be acceptable, this proposal must establish links
among “(1) protein- and fat-deficient diet, (2) cannibalism to alleviate this
problem, and (3) human sacrifice as the means to provide the general population with food” (Berdan 2005: 123–124). The existing evidence on Aztec
human sacrifice and cannibalism does not support these links. First, the Aztec
diet lacked neither protein nor fats. In the sixteenth century, thirty-two different types of edible fowl are recorded by one source alone and described as
both abundant and very fatty (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 11, 25–39, 53–54).
Edible fish, larvae, lacustrine animals, and domesticated turkeys and dogs were
also abundant. Probably most significant was the easily stored maize–beans
complex, which served as an excellent source of protein. It is highly unlikely
that the Aztec diet was protein-deficient. As to the second point, if one follows
the Harner–Harris position that cannibalism served to augment a proteindeficient diet, one must also conclude that this strategy would have been rather
inefficient, since most cannibalism coincided with the harvests, when maize
and beans were fresh and plentiful.The eating of human flesh was also selective
in that only the limbs were consumed.The heads were displayed on skull racks,
and the bodies (torsos) as well as dogs were fed to carnivores in the royal zoos
(Díaz del Castillo 1963: 229). If protein was in such short supply for human

Religion, Science, and the Arts
consumption, one wonders about this disposition. And in the last hours of the
Spanish siege of Tenochtitlan, starving residents resorted to eating adobe and
leather rather than consuming the many human bodies lying about (Ortiz de
Montellano 1978: 613). Furthermore, Harner recognizes that the elite engaged
in the greatest amount of cannibalism.Yet people on this rung of society also
had access to the most protein-rich foods generally. How, then, might cannibalism solve a protein problem for commoners, the vast majority of the population, when these people participated rarely in cannibalism (see González
Torres 1985: 81–82)? As to the third issue, the relationship between human sacrifice and cannibalism, there is no consensus on the extent of human sacrifice
(as previously discussed), yet we can say that of those sacrificed, not all were
consumed. In sum, “If cannibalism were causally tied to protein deficiency in
the central Mexican population, it would have been at best a limited remedy
for the least needful segment of the population” (Berdan 2005: 124).
Human sacrifice, more than cannibalism, was demographically, economically, and politically significant. The demographic impact of human sacrifice
lay mostly in its disproportionate targeting of adult males, therefore reducing at
least temporarily the ability of a newly conquered city-state to mount a rebellion. In this vein, the massive sacrificial spectacles drew on captive warriors
from areas beyond the Basin of Mexico, thus having a greater impact on those
regions than on the Basin itself. It is worth noting that the increasing scale of
human sacrifice coincided generally with the most energetic and successful
militaristic efforts of the Aztec Empire.
Whatever the motivations, human sacrifices were ritual offerings presented
at the numerous temples during the innumerable public ceremonies. Other
rituals, quite a bit tamer, abounded within every household of the realm, and
with the exception of these ultimate sacrifices, they mirrored in many ways
the public spectacles.

Domestic Rituals and More Offerings
A great deal of ritual activity took place within the confines of individual
homes, from ruler’s palace to farmer’s hut. Whether urban or rural, these
domestic rituals were designed to ensure the well-being of the household
residents and satisfy their particular needs. By looking at these rituals as “little
traditions” (in the recently revived great tradition/little tradition framework;
see McAnany 2002), we can appreciate their local goals while also recognizing
their links to more encompassing state ceremonies.
Virtually all of the grand, public ceremonies had one or more domestic
components, being preceded or followed by household visiting, feasting, and
ceremonial offerings. I see a continuum of ritual activities in these ceremonies, relying on prescribed events taking place in both household and statelevel contexts; household rituals were adapted to, were coordinated with, and

243

244

Aztec Society and Culture
mirrored the broader ceremonial world. For instance, archaeological excavations of Aztec houses in Morelos have revealed ceramic censers similar to those
found in temple contexts (see López Luján 2005: 105, 159–60, 185, 200), suggesting that the offering of incense in household rituals may have been common, resembling such offerings at the larger ceremonies (Smith 2002: 98–102).
These censers may have been used on a daily basis at the household’s altar, especially early in the morning (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 194–195; Motolinía
1971: 315), much as priests offered incense to deity images at the many temples.
The idea of reciprocity predominated in households, just as it did on the more
public ceremonial stage. Householders, usually mutual residents of a calpolli,
exchanged among themselves everything from flowers and food to clothing
and jewels, in expectation and reinforcement of bonds of mutual aid and support. On another plane, farmers would offer incense, pulque, food, and speeches
to their agricultural tools, recognizing the help these implements gave the
farmers in their work in, again, a ritual of reciprocity (Durán 1971: 431–432).
Ethnohistoric sources (especially Sahagún and Durán) provide an enlightening look at a few individual monthly ceremonies with their public and
domestic components. During the fourth monthly ceremony of Huey toçoztli,
people began the celebrations by collecting maize stalks, fasting, and performing self-sacrifice in their own homes: “There, nobleman or commoner spent
the day; this was done everywhere in their houses” (Sahagún 1997: 58). These
activities were followed by public processions, temple ceremonies, and offerings. During Tlacaxipehualiztli (second month), the body of a captive who was
publicly sacrificed was taken to his captor’s home for display and consumption. And in the ninth month, Tlaxochimaco, commoners gathered together
and strung flowers, made tamales, and stayed up all night – all in their homes.
At daybreak, they went out and adorned the deities with flowers. This was
followed by feasting in homes and then by public singing and dancing, featuring achieved warriors and “women of the night.” At day’s end, everyone went
home and continued to sing for the gods. In this month, public and household
events were interspersed during the overall ceremony, back and forth, resulting in a rather seamless continuity of religious activity. There is a scholarly
tendency to analytically separate these two types of ritual (public/state and
domestic); I would agree that the Aztecs recognized the different arenas in
the performance of these grand ceremonies but doubt that they made sharp
distinctions in terms of ritual input and outcomes. It has yet to be ascertained
to what extent the state imposed its dominant ideology and rituals on its
populace, or to what extent the household ceremonies were locally developed
traditions or innovations (see Brumfiel 1996; Smith 2002).
On a somewhat different plane, we have seen that life cycle events were
highly ritualized and were played out within household contexts. In addition
to these activities, much household ritual revolved around divination, magic,
and sorcery.

Religion, Science, and the Arts

Divination, Magic, and Curing
Earlier, we asked how an individual Aztec person coped, day to day, in the
face of distant, demanding, and sometimes capricious deities, coupled with the
rigors and uncertainties of daily life. Some measure of comfort and sense of
control derived from beliefs and rituals centered on divination, magic, and curing. These activities engaged the individual in proactive rituals, often through
solicitation of the services of various specialized shamans.
Seler (1991) specifies four types of Aztec magicians: fortune tellers (diviners),
doctors and medicine men (shamans), magicians or sorcerers generally, and
jugglers or conjurers. The Aztecs were very interested in foreseeing the future
(who isn’t?), and this provided employment for a variety of skilled diviners or
fortune tellers. Some cast maize kernels and beans on a mat, their arrangement yielding positive or negative signs (often to ascertain the course of an
illness but also to locate a lost or stolen object). Another trained diviner tied
and loosed knots; others interpreted dreams and visions; while still others read
patterns of wind, water, and fire or the behavior of a snake (Seler 1991: 43–45;
Durán 1994: 492–493).
The activities of diviners often overlapped with those of doctors and shamans. These specialists aided invalids by casting lots, magically sucking out
offending objects (such as an obsidian knife or pine splinter), or drawing out a
worm from a person’s teeth. Another doctor might require a sick child to look
into a special mirror or a bowl of water, the resulting vision providing a prognostication of the extent of the child’s illness (especially soul loss). Magicians
such as these generally provided beneficial services. Others, sorcerers, were
malevolent and antisocial. It was believed that some individuals, those born
on the days One Wind and One Rain, were particularly disposed to a life of
sorcery. If born on One Rain, for instance, individuals could transform themselves into other creatures.19 They were called tlacatecolotl (man owl) and would
“assume the guise of an animal,” being “a destroyer of people; an implanter
of sickness” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 31). Soul loss and the intrusion of
a foreign object were believed to derive from the activities of these muchfeared sorcerers, and other magical specialists made a living by countering
these malevolent forces; much to the point, a despised enemy might be disposed of through these means. Birth on the day One Wind also inclined a man
to become a sorcerer, this time as a “dancer with the dead woman’s forearm”
(the woman having died in first childbirth), which had strong magical powers.
A female born on the same day could achieve the same results by disarticulating such a deceased woman’s foot bones (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 4, 101).
Other sorcerers pursued their nefarious ways by making a person’s flesh fall off
or by hypnotizing their victims.
Jugglers or conjurers operated mostly by suggestion, with the Huaxteca
especially skilled in these sleight-of-hand tricks. They were able to simulate,

245

246

Aztec Society and Culture
for instance, a cottage afire, “a spring to appear to be filled with fish, and that
they could actually cut themselves into pieces” (Seler 1991: 46). Others (not
Huaxteca) could, for example, place maize kernels on a cloth and make them
swell up, burst, and pop as though they were being properly roasted. These
sorts of tricks were captivating, but they appear to have had few ramifications
beyond payments to the performers and amusements for the audience.
Most divinatory, magical, and curing activities were enacted at the household level, whether headed by a commoner farmer or an imperial ruler. So
the second Motecuhzoma consulted “magicians, seers, and sorcerers” to help
him through his fear of the newly arrived Spaniards. They were to ascertain
the future especially through visions or dreams, but also by studying the heavenly bodies; divining by water, fire or wind; and casting maize kernels (Durán
1994: 492–493). In humbler homes, apparently most such rituals were in the
hands of women as curers, midwives, and general household managers. Many
of their efforts seem to have been directed toward female fertility deities, given
the profusion of ceramic figurines representing these goddesses uncovered in
domestic excavations (Smith 2002, in press a).
Some such manipulative rituals, however, also apparently were enacted at
special altars in public places. These relatively small stone platforms, decorated
with skull and crossed bone motifs, were probably scenes where female curing specialists performed rituals aimed at the tzitzimime. In their more constructive moments, these deities (feared as celestial monsters during desperate
times) were associated with fertility goddesses such as Cihuacoatl, Coatlicue,
and Tlaltecuhtli (Klein 2000; Smith in press a). Also on the larger religious
scene, distant Ometecuhtli resided as an original magician,Toci was celebrated
publicly as the patroness of diviners and curers, Tezcatlipoca was a serious sorcerer (who saw all through his obsidian mirrors), and specialized shamans were
enlisted to circumvent an overzealous or inattentive Tlaloc, holding hailstorms
at bay or summoning rains.
All of these efforts at influencing and manipulating powerful supernatural
forces were only part of the Aztec formulas for coping with life’s uncertainties.
These people also were keen observers of the natural world, practical implementers of their extensive knowledge, and, it seems, clever and successful scientific experimenters.
MEDICINE AS EMPIRICAL AND APPLIED SCIENCE

Drawing heavily on both their Chichimec and agricultural experiences, the
Aztecs displayed a detailed understanding of the structure and dynamics of the
diverse natural world around them (see especially Cases 3.4, 4.1, and 4.2).They
had a practical eye on the world, whether it be the movements of heavenly
bodies, the growth of plants, the behaviors of animals, or the workings and
maladies of the human body and mind.

Religion, Science, and the Arts

247

Figure 7.8. Doctoring a head wound.
(From Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, illus.
178. Courtesy University of Utah Press.
Reproduced with permission.)

As expected, these understandings were filtered through their cultural lens.
The Aztecs saw cultural analogies with nature through their metaphors, adages,
omens, and riddles: a poor person was considered to be humble like a turtledove, an esteemed ruler provided protection like a cypress or silk cotton tree, a
wanderer or fugitive had become like a rabbit or a deer, and a liar was likened to
a coyote. If a weasel crossed one’s path it meant danger loomed. A rabbit entering
one’s house foretold the loss of the house or the departure of the householder
(running like a rabbit), while a skunk in one’s house presaged the resident’s
death. And a riddle asked, “What is it that is a small blue gourd bowl filled with
popcorn?” The answer: “One can see from our little riddle that it is the heavens” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 5, 165–171; book 6, 228, 252, 253, 232, 237). The
Aztecs’ acute observations allowed them not only such clever sayings, but also
provided them with a large repertoire of practical and useful knowledge – from
familiarity with the heavens to geology to biology. We have a particularly rich
record of their knowledge of the human body, health, and medicine.
Medicine embraced both ritual and practical curing techniques. Some illnesses and injuries were attributed to the ire of the gods, others to the nefarious acts of sorcerers, and still others to natural causes (Román Berrelleza
2008; Ortiz de Montellano 1990). These were not cut-and-dried categories,
as the same physical malady could have religious, magical, and natural causes,
and cures from all three areas (Ortiz de Montellano 1990: 161). In the first
two instances, supernatural appeasements and counter-sorcery measures were
sought for remedies. On the practical dimension, illnesses attributed to natural causes were tackled by medicine, a form of applied science, in which the
Aztecs used their astute observation and experimental skills to prevent diseases,
cure ills, and heal injuries (Ortiz de Montellano 1990: 181). This empirical/
scientific dimension of curing recognized physical realities.
The Aztecs and their neighbors faced a variety of medical issues, most
notably wounds (primarily from military combat) (Figure 7.8), diseases such
as arthritis and tuberculosis, ailments such as fevers and stomachaches, difficult childbirth, compromised mental states, and miscellaneous matters such
as hair loss and insomnia (see Case 7.2). Large-scale epidemic diseases such
as smallpox, measles, and typhus arrived with the Europeans. The highland
peoples especially faced respiratory and gastrointestinal afflictions, while
tropical lowlanders suffered disproportionately from parasites. Arthritis and

248

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 7.2 Medical Issues and Cures: A Sampler
The Aztecs were extremely well informed about their environment and
enjoyed the benefits of an abundant pharmacopoeia to cure their ills and heal
their wounds. The following table provides a small sampling of some of these
natural remedies and procedures (please do not try these at home). I add two
caveats: (1) only a few maladies are listed, for illustrative purposes, and (2) each
of the remedies listed does not exhaust the range of cures known to Aztec
medical practitioners for the specified ailment. For instance, just a brief scan
of Hernández’s Historia natural (1959) reveals numerous additional remedies for
fevers, respiratory ailments, and intestinal complaints.
Medical Issue

Natural Material(s)

Procedure(s)

Head wound,
puncture wound

Urine, maguey leaf sap,
chipili leaves,
egg. white

Broken skull

Maguey leaf sap

Broken leg or arm

Çacacili root, acocotli
root, nopal root,
liquidambar, maguey
[root], [lime]

Loss of nose
(severed)

Salt, bee honey

Snake bites, insect
bites, scorpion
stings

Tobacco

(1) Wash wound with urine;
(2) apply hot maguey leaf
sap; (3) if festers, add other
ingredients.
(1) Join the break with a
bone awl; (2) apply maguey
sap or grated green maguey
leaf to wound.
(1) Limb joined; (2) poultice
of çacacili root applied; (3)
wooden splints bound on;
[or] (1) acocotli root and
nopal root combined and
placed on break; (2) limb
bandaged with cloth; (3)
limbs tightly bound on four
sides with cords; (4) untied
in 20 days; (5) then poultice
of liquidambar, maguey
[root] and lime applied;
(6) hot bath taken when
healed.
(1) Sew nose back on with
hair; (2) wash with salted
bee honey; (3) if nose
is lost, a new nose is
made of something else
[unspecified]
(1) Cut into the site; (2) suck
out the poison; (3) rub
tobacco on the wound.

Religion, Science, and the Arts

249

Medical Issue

Natural Material(s)

Procedure(s)

Chest ailments,
cough, shortness
of breath

Chichicpatli bark from
chichicquauitl tree,
chile seeds, squash
seeds, ezpatli herb,
honey, tlacoxiloxochitl
(root)

Fever

Chichipilli root, alum,
acid water, sand
tomato root,
tacanalquilitl root,
maize kernels, aitztoli
root, marigolds

Skin sores

Pine resin, black beetles,
tlatlamatl root,
atlepatli leaves,
itzcuinpatli leaves,
urine, tlaquilin shoots,
tlatlanquaye, quetzalylin
shrub, aquahuitl trees

Intestinal parasites

Avocado, epazotl (epazote), squash seeds
Maguey sap,
yellow chile, gourd
seeds

(1) Grind and cook first two
herbs; (2) drink concoction 2–3 times, warm or
in pulque; [or] consume a
warm infusion of the next
three ingredients; [or] peel
and grind up final ingredient, boil it, and sip its juice
with honey; whichever, (3)
eat slowly.
(1) Drink infusion of chichipilli root, alum, and acid
water; (2) drink infusion
of sand tomato root and
tacanalquilitl root mixed
with five maize kernels; (3)
drink an infusion of aitztoli
root and acid water, [or]
marigold flowers and leaves
taken as an infusion or
with pulque.
(1) Small sore removed with
a poultice of pine resin
and squashed black beetles;
(2) later tlatlamatl root and
pine resin, or atlepatli leaves
applied (external use only);
(3) take a hot bath with
an infusion of itzcuinpatli
leaves to lower body temperature, [or] wash sores
with urine and then apply
a plaster from the remaining four ingredients.
These ingredients were taken
in an infusion.
(1) Drink mixture of maguey
sap, one yellow chile, and
shelled gourd seeds; (2)
take a sweatbath.

Relapse

Sources: Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 140–141, 145–146, 151, 153, 157, 159–162; book 11, 77, 87–94,
131, 133, 135, 144, 174–175, 179, 193, 199; Hernández 1959: vol. 2, 11–12, 58, 154, 165, 170, 376, 386–388;
Gates 1939: 37, 75–76, 83, 84; Bye and Linares 1999: 8, 12–13; Parrilla Alvarez 2003: 67, 95, 116, 154.
Additional information on the specific plants, as well as alternative modes of curing, can be found in
these sources.

250

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 7.9. Herbal
medicines for sale in a
twentieth-century Mexican
marketplace. (Photograph by
Frances Berdan.)

rheumatism affected people over the age of 30–35, while young children most
often succumbed to dysentery and diarrhea (Ortiz de Montellano 2001: 216).
All of these and more are recorded in ethnohistoric documents. In addition, recent analyses of admittedly small samples of skeletal remains indicate
that at least some children suffered from iron-deficiency anemia caused by
dietary deficiencies or intestinal parasites, as well as from dental problems
deriving from poor hygiene or infections. Adults experienced similar dental issues but also, beginning by age 30, were beset with joint deterioration
(such as arthritis) and bone degeneration caused by, for instance, tuberculosis. The skulls and limbs of adult males, exhibiting dislocations, fractures, and
infected wounds, stand as mute evidence of participation in a warrior society
(Román Berrelleza 2008: 61–65).
Prevention was a part of practical medicine, and practical life.The first line of
defense was an adequate diet, resulting in a relatively low incidence of chronic
diseases such as heart disease and cancer (Ortiz de Montellano 1990: 121; 2001:
215). The Aztecs also emphasized hygiene, bathing frequently, providing clean
drinking water, and implementing effective waste disposal systems.20 However,
it appears that assumed levels of nutrition and hygiene were not necessarily
always maintained; malnutrition and illnesses did occur, as evidenced by the
skeletal and dental remains of children and adults. So while detailed procedures
existed for dental care (including washing with urine, wormwood, salt, chile,
and various roots and tree barks; rubbing with charcoal, white ashes, and white
honey; and scraping), physical remains reveal problems from excessive tartar to
cavities (Gates 1939: 27; Román Berrelleza 2008). Beyond diet and hygiene,
preventative measures were taken to avoid specific medical problems, involving
(and sometimes combining) magical, behavioral, and practical measures. For
example, childhood stammering and lisping were avoided by weaning children early, avocado seeds were employed to prevent hair loss, chewing gum

Religion, Science, and the Arts
maintained clean teeth, and pregnant women enlisted the services of experienced midwives and were cleansed in sweatbaths to ensure successful births.
Nursing mothers were advised to shun avocados lest their infants become ill
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 146–147, 151; Bye and Linares 1999: 8). And
tobacco was smoked at the end of a feast, as a digestive aid. In another vein, a
rank-and-file warrior (the vast majority of troops were rank and file) entering
the battlefield went protected with a shield and quilted cotton armor covering only his torso, while his more achieved colleague wore additional limbenclosing protection and a headdress along with a shield (see Case 8.1). Still,
this provided only partial defense against enemy weaponry, and severe wounds
from these violent encounters most commonly were suffered on the head and
limbs and included bashes, gashes, and puncture wounds.
The selection of a cure was based at least in part on notions of “hot”
and “cold” and the balance or equilibrium between the two.21 The selection of particular cures may have had an empirical base – that is, a curative
herb was seen to be “cold” because it was effective against a “hot” malady,
the label determined by “habit, experience, and custom” (Chevalier and
Sánchez Bain 2003: 7–8). Therefore, doctors, midwives, and other medical practitioners selected their curative potions and methods on the basis
of extensive training, personal experience, and available pharmacological
materials (especially plants). The knowledge of these specialists is impressive, especially considering that a given plant could often relieve more than
one ailment and a given ailment could often be relieved by more than one
curative treatment.22 Some of these remedies are sold today in Mexican
marketplaces (Figure 7.9).
The efficacy of several of these curative elements has been verified scientifically. According to Bye and Linares (1999: 5), of 118 plants with ethnohistorically recorded curative properties, 85 percent have been shown in the modern
era to be medically efficacious. For instance, the Aztecs used white zapote
fruit (Casimiroa edulis) as a sleep aid, and the seeds of this fruit have indeed
been shown to contain compounds with sedative qualities.23 Guayaba (Psidium
guajava) leaves have been scientifically shown to relieve diarrhea and other
abdominal maladies, as claimed by the Aztecs. Tepescohuite (Mimosa tenuiflora),
used to relieve skin burns and wounds, contains chemical compounds that
provide antibiotics and promote cell regeneration (Rivera Arce 1999: 57–59).
Maguey leaves were commonly used in healing wounds: for a broken skull
or stab wound, the Aztecs applied hot maguey leaf sap (with or without salt),
several times if the wound festered (e.g., Hernández 1959: vol. 1, 349; Sahagún
1950–1982: book 10, 140–141, 161–162). Maguey leaf sap has been shown to
effectively inhibit the growth of several bacteria commonly associated with
wounds (Viesca Treviño 1999: 34–35; Ortiz de Montellano 1990: 182–185).
This was convenient, considering the frequent ritual use of maguey thorns in
bloodletting rituals.

251

252

Aztec Society and Culture
ARTS IN THE SERVICE OF RELIGION AND THE STATE

A great deal of artistic and intellectual energy was expended in supporting,
bolstering, and reinforcing state and religious goals. Pictorial books, oral narratives, and monumental stone sculptures contributed to maintaining state
institutions, promoting imperial values, exalting rulers, recording histories,
recounting myths, invigorating religious beliefs and rituals, and reinforcing
ethnic traditions.

Books and Writing
In Aztec society, as elsewhere worldwide, books provided a means of recording, storing, and transmitting information in a specific and visible form. Aztec
scribes recorded tributes; censuses; maps; local and imperial histories; rulers’
genealogies; and religious, calendrical, and astrological information. These
painted books, now called codices, were maintained in temples and impressive
royal libraries, and were also possessed by noble families and calpolli leaders
(Boone 2000a: 22). They were constructed as tiras, or screenfolds (long continuous accounts spreading over several pieces of paper or animal hide, glued
together, and then rolled or folded accordion-style), in separate sheets (convenient for tribute records and maps), or as lienzos (large rectangular records,
often of community histories and land rights, painted on pounded maguey
fiber or cotton).
The most common book material, amatl (amate) paper, was fashioned from
the inner bark of amaquauitl, or fig (Ficus sp.), trees. Strips of soaked bark were
laid out, grid-style, and pounded so that the fibers would mesh together (much
as in the manufacture of papyrus) (see Figure 1.8). These sheets were then
dried and treated with various materials to yield a firm and uniform writing
surface. Paintings were usually outlined in black and embellished with a kaleidoscope of colors, primarily red, green, blue, and yellow. It is no surprise that
pictorial writing itself was called in tlilli in tlapalli, “the black, the red.”
Whatever their specific materials or content, books recorded and stored
information central to royal and religious concerns and enterprises, and
“embodied imperial ideology” (Boone 1996: 181). Genealogies affirmed and
reaffirmed rulers’ rights and legitimacy. Local and imperial histories validated
and solidified a group’s heritage and entitlements.Tribute accounts tallied local
and state wealth. Maps defined territories and identified specific physical features (often serving as a base for recounting historical events) or documented
the lay of distant lands for military purposes. Censuses accounted for human
resources and aided in the allocation of labor to community and state projects.
And religious, calendrical, and astrological records provided a foundation for
ritual events. In a broad sense, books stored knowledge: they “provided the
model, the standard, the example” for culture and civilization (Boone 2000a:

Religion, Science, and the Arts

a

b

253

c

d

Figure 7.10. Aztec glyphs: (a) cave, (b) palace, (c) deer’s foot, (d) the name Atonal.
(From Berdan and Anawalt 1992, vol. 4, folios 24v, 5v, 42r, 7v.)

21). Books were elite records produced for elite purposes.They were also controlled by the elite. As a case in point, Itzcoatl (r. 1426–1440) reportedly burned
existing books when he came to power, effectively erasing his predecessors’
legacy and history (a political strategy well known in world history) (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 10, 191).
Aztec writing was nonalphabetic, using pictorial elements in three distinct ways: pictographic,24 ideographic, and phonetic. Pictographs were used
as straightforward depictions of things, people, and events that closely resembled their referents. So a jaguar or its head indicated a jaguar, a rabbit a rabbit, and a griddle a griddle (see Figures C5.3 and 6.7). A warrior grasping a
foe by his hair represented a battlefield capture, and a burning and toppling
temple indicated conquest – both of these events were replicated in real life
(see Figure 5.3). Much as they were depictions of reality, pictographs still
conformed to the culture’s perceptions and stylistic conventions: a cave was
as much an underworld entryway as a physical feature, and the standardized
decoration identifying a palace was readily seen “on the ground” (Figure 7.10
a, b). Images were also used more abstractly, as ideographs, representing a particularly notable feature or essential quality of the whole. For instance, a picture of the sun could signify heat or light, a shield with arrows indicated war
or conquest (Figure 5.3), and a noble’s headband stood for the noble himself
(Figure 7.10b). Some ideographic glyphs were more arbitrary: a deer’s foot
represented flight, and four connected dots provided the concept of “day”
(Figure 7.10c, d). Ideographic glyphs could also be used to convey metaphors;
the water-fire stream on the feathered coyote shield (Figure C4.2) stands for in
atl in tlachinolli, “water, burned field,” a metaphor for war. Writing was further
enhanced by the use of a limited number of phonetic glyphs. Phoneticism
took the form of rebus writing, relying on homonyms. For instance, in the
toponym for Tochpan, a banner (pantli) is drawn to stand for the sound pan
and its alternative meaning, “on,” yielding “On the Rabbit” (Figure C5.3,
upper left]. The curve (col-) on a mountaintop prompts the sound “col,” identifying the town as Colhuacan (Figure C4.1). The sound “a” was frequently
indicated by the symbol for water (atl), and the sound “o” was expressed by
one or more footprints, from ohtli, “road.”

254

Aztec Society and Culture

a

b

c

d

Figure C7.3. Glyphic versions of the name Moquihuix: (a) from Berdan and
Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 19r; (b) from Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, illus. 21,
courtesy University of Utah Press, reproduced with permission; (c) from Codex
Telleriano-Remensis, folio 36v, drawing by Jennifer Berdan; (d) from Dibble 1981:
vol. 1, 22, courtesy University of Utah Press, reproduced with permission.

Case 7.3 How to Write a Ruler’s Name: Moquihuix of Tlatelolco
Moquihuix (Drunk Face or Drunken Lord) ruled Tlatelolco from 1467 to 1473.
He unwisely warred with the Mexica of neighboring Tenochtitlan and died
plummeting from atop his city’s central temple. He appears in several pictorial
documents, each time his name rendered by a different glyph or constellation
of glyphs. All of these documents, with the likely exception of the Matrícula
de Tributos, date from Spanish colonial times. I provide here a few examples of
these name glyphs, with the intention of exemplifying variation, flexibility, and
fluidity in scribal repertoires and usages (Figure C7.3).
1. The Codex Mendoza (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3, folios 10r, 19r)and
the related Matrícula de Tributos (1980: folio 2r) show Moquihuix and his
name a total of three times. His glyphic name in all of these depictions
consists of his face, partly painted red, with a curved nose ornament and
numerous dots in place of hair. His name can be translated from this complex glyph as “Drunk Face”: mocuiqui (he who is ill from too much drinking) is represented by the dots representing octli or pulque, and ixtli (face)
provides the name’s final syllable (-ix). The noseplug, associated with the
octli god Ometochtli (Two Rabbit), reinforces the interpretation of the
dots as this fermented beverage. The Codex Azcatitlan (1995: folio 36) depicts Moquihuix’s fatal fall, and Boone (2000a: 226) suggests that a vomiting face attached to Tlatelolco’s place name sign represents Moquihuix
(again mocuiqui and -ix). In this variant, drunkenness is represented by
vomiting rather than by the octli imagery.
2. Sahagún’s Florentine Codex (1950–1982: book 8, illus. 21) illustrates this ruler
with an even simpler glyph: an eye.The eye (ixtelolotli) is used frequently to
represent the sound -ix- (for “face”), and in this case the scribe must have
felt it sufficiently informative to abbreviate this ruler’s longer name to its
final syllable.

Religion, Science, and the Arts
3. Codex Telleriano-Remensis (Quiñones Keber 1995: folio 36v, drawing by
Jennifer Berdan) follows a different strategy, identifying Moquihuix with
a bowl of bubbling octli, writing the first part of his name but omitting
the last.
4. Codex en Cruz (Dibble 1981: vol. 1, 22) shows Moquihuix’s name as a
combination of mousetrap, montli (for mo-) and eye (-ix), a homonym for
face (ixtli). In this case, the scribe phonetically highlighted the first and
final syllables of his name.
Each of these variants selected one or more phonetic portion of Moquihuix’s
name to represent glyphically. Disambiguating these glyphs required extensive
prior knowledge on the part of the reader, as well as an ability to understand
and interpret context.

All of these devices were used together to enrich visual communication,
whether rendered on paper, cloth, stone objects, walls, feather mosaics, or some
other medium. The trained and experienced reader generally used the written
images as mnemonic devices to expand description or narrative. These readings may not have been terribly uniform or standardized: the writing system’s
nonalphabetic character often enough resulted in variable interpretations.25 As
just one example, a footprint could be read at least as a road, a bridge, travel,
the sound “o,” or the direction in which to read the codex itself, and different
readers may well have interpreted this symbol differently (Berdan 1992a: 100).
Indeed, Prem (2004: 42) suggests that imprecise or multiple readings of pictures
and glyphs were the rule rather than the exception. Variation, flexibility, and
fluidity were hallmarks of this writing system (see Case 7.3).

Oral Expression and Philosophy
Pictorial and oral expression were inextricably intertwined (Boone 2000a: 21).
Indeed,“the written and visual narratives that have survived to this day were only
complete when they were performed together with their corresponding oral
traditions” (Navarrete 2011: 176). These oral discourses included poetry, songs,
sacred chants, religious dance-dramas, historical renditions, and huehuetlatolli
(words of the ancients or words of the elders; simply put, advice).They enhanced
the veracity, authenticity, and solemnity of visual texts by usually being performed
in sacred contexts and by their ability to supersede defacement or destruction,
the not uncommon fate of monuments or texts (see Navarrete 2011: 191).
Performers and narrators could come from all walks of life, depending on
their participation in particular events. Some ceremonies required singing and
dancing by a large number of people, who learned these performances in
the cuicacalli. Others drew on professional singers who, like celebrated orators,
exhibited clear voices, keen memories, and creativity (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 10, 29).The most renowned of these performers were employed by rulers

255

256

Aztec Society and Culture
to laud “their feats, victories, conquests, genealogies, and their extraordinary
wealth” (Durán 1971: 299), a common means of self-promotion by leaders
throughout history. Other singers glorified the gods by composing, teaching,
and caring for sacred songs at the many temples. Additional oral genres drew
on the skills of well-trained narrators. Exquisite oral expression was highly
regarded in Aztec culture – recall that a ruler was called tlatoani, or “speaker.”
The “good narrator” offered “pleasing words, joyful words, he has flowers on
his lips.... His speech overflows with advice ... from him come noble language
and careful sentences” (León-Portilla 1969: 27). He was the oral version of the
fine featherworker. He was also certainly trained in a calmecac and most often
came from a noble household.
Songs, music, dances, and recitations were combined in major religious
ceremonies, some of which featured spectacular dramatic productions and
performers disguised as deities, eagles, jaguars, monkeys, birds, butterflies, enigmatic Huaxtecs, and other personas. Some of these were serious and highly
religious, reinforcing the people’s relations with their deities. Others had a
humorous tint: one featured a “simpleton ... who pretended to understand all
his master’s words backward, turning around his words” (Durán 1971: 297).
These dramas, transformed by Christian themes, continued to be both popular
and extravagant after the Spanish conquest (Burkhart 2011; Chapter 8).
Among the Aztecs’ richest oral traditions was poetry, which was closely
related to songs and chants popular in religious rituals. But while songs and
chants had to conform to formal ritual dictates and the specific demands of
deities, poetry (especially lyric poetry)26 allowed the composer and narrator
more freedom of expression. Some poems were created by renowned rulers
such as Nezahualcoyotl and his son Nezahualpilli of Texcoco. These and other
Aztec philosopher-poets were introspective thinkers, and they grappled with
profound matters of life and death and the very nature of human existence. So
the poet Cuauhtencoztli asked:
Are men perhaps real?
Soon our song will not be real.
What is standing?
What will come about? (León-Portilla and Shorris 2001: 86)

Poets also dealt with more everyday matters, such as the fleeting joy of friendship and love, the glory of war, and the illustriousness of their own history:
We have come up like the spring grass;
It sprouts, it revives our heart;
Our bodies are flowers,
Some blossom, then wither ... (León-Portilla and Shorris
2001: 99)

Although Aztec culture provided its people with well-defined guidelines for
living and a powerful religious doctrine focused on fate, some intellectuals

Religion, Science, and the Arts
nonetheless expressed doubt, anxiety, dissatisfaction, and hope through their
oral creations.

Monumental Sculpture
Much as writing and recitations gave pictorial and oral life to Aztec history
and beliefs, sculptures presented many of the same themes in stone: like books
and narrations, sculptures focused on the achievements of powerful rulers and
the glory of the gods. And the sculptors themselves were no less skilled in their
craft; the good stonecutter was “of skilled hands ... accomplished ... labors with
dexterity, with dexterous judgment” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, 27–28).
Conversely, the inept stoneworker did not conform to these high standards
and had a “lame, feeble arm” and was “a crooked cutter” (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 10, 28). Teamwork was evident: in producing the most monumental
works, several sculptors were required.27 They were capable of designing and
executing well-integrated sculptures by the application of highly standardized
techniques and styles. These techniques and styles, according to Umberger
(1996: 166), were developed in concert with the growth of the Empire itself.
The sculptors worked basalt, diorite, andesite, and greenstone with a variety of
tools, primary among which were saws, blades, chisels, wedges, hammers, drills,
and various abrasive materials. Monumental sculptures were also fashioned of
wood (as documented for idols) and ceramics (such as the remarkable eagle
warriors, more than 5½ feet tall, encountered in the House of Eagles beside
Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor).
The most prominent sculptural themes revolved around religion and politics (see Cases 1.2 and 5.2). Freestanding religious sculptures depicted deities,
masks, scaled-down temples, time, and the cosmos (Figure C1.2), symbolic animals (such as snakes and frogs), and ritual objects (such as a carved year bundle).
Some served as receptacles for human hearts in sacrificial rituals. Reliefs also
portrayed deities, myths, skulls, the cosmos, and ritual events (see Figure 7.2).
Monumental sculptures also served state goals. A ruler was memorialized in
stone, significant royal deeds and transitions were commemorated in reliefs,
battles were recounted, warriors honored, and human standard-bearers stood
at the ready in the central precinct. In a world where politics and religion were
mutually supportive, a single object readily served both masters. For example,
enormous sacrificial stones provided the stage for ritual sacrifices, celebrating the strength of the Empire as battlefield captives were offered upon them.
And stylized bowls (quauhxicalli, literally “eagle gourd bowl”) received human
hearts for the gods while exalting the power of the militaristic Empire.
More mundane subjects, most still laden with symbolism, were also portrayed in sculptures, albeit not on such a colossal scale. Common subjects were
human beings (including commoners), animals, plants, and various objects
such as drums and shields. One could argue that most of these also carried

257

258

Aztec Society and Culture
religious and/or political meanings: a scorpion, bat, spider, and owl carved on
a stone box were frightful denizens of the night (Pasztory 1983: 245); jaguars,
eagles, and coyotes symbolized elite warrior cadres; frogs and toads were associated with earth and agricultural fertility; dogs played an important role in a
deceased’s underworld journey; monkey was a day name in the 260-day ritual
calendar; grasshopper was part of a place name – but a flea, fish, gourd, and a
man holding a cacao pod are a bit harder to explain symbolically, and it is not
clear how these might have been used or displayed. Perhaps the sculptors of
these and similar objects were rather like the lyric poets, flexing their creative
muscles.
Religious, scientific, intellectual, and artistic activities were central to the
Aztec way of life. Much as they were intertwined, they also played significant
roles in other aspects of this dynamic civilization. The final chapter of this
book highlights these broader connections, especially in the context of a rapidly changing world both before and after the Spanish conquest.

C hap t e r 8
T H E A Z T E C WO R L D : A N I N T E G R AT E D V I E W

The sick person said ... And a feathered cloak of mine, with duck feathers,
will also be sold ... and two very fine cotton cloaks will be sold ... one of
them of yellow cotton, and one with a basket-flower design.... And the
shield with 200 quetzal plumes, let it be as it is; it is to be in the keeping of
Diego and Bautista, and a coyote’s head (headdress) with crest device will
also be so kept ... and the monkey [of feathers] with the pheasant’s head
(device).
Testament [will] of don Julián de la Rosa,Tlaxcallan, 1566;
in Anderson et al. 1976: 44–53

Throughout, this book has stressed the complexity and interconnectedness of
the many facets of the Aztec world: demography both required and supported
complex polities, economic production and distribution underwrote imperial
bureaucracies, trade and markets extended standards of living and the Empire
itself, social statuses were reinforced by political policy, and religious dictates,
politics, and religion reinforced one another in symbol and ceremony – the list
of connections goes on and on. And these were not static conditions. Rather,
the Aztec world was an intensely dynamic one, with dramatic changes discernible even within the short life span of the Empire. Although these complex and dynamic relationships can be readily seen throughout the book, I
would like to place particular emphasis on them by presenting here, in the
book’s final chapter, three extended case studies, each revolving around a particular theoretical concept. The first focuses on military regalia, expanding on
this small arena to illustrate the manner in which various dimensions of Aztec
life were interwoven via the theme of inalienable wealth. The second considers the Aztec scene as a world system, viewing the imperial realm and beyond
in interrelated geographic, economic, linguistic, political, social, and symbolic
terms. These relations were not entirely one-way or one-sided; indeed, the
Empire itself was influenced by external areas while it was extending its own
political and economic hegemony.The third takes a close look at Aztec culture

259

260

Aztec Society and Culture
under the stress of a conquest by outsiders. Having become accustomed to
their position as conquerors, how did Aztecs, as individuals and as a collectivity,
respond and adjust to being the conquered? How did they adapt to the new
rulers of the land with their different culture, explicit demands, and unfamiliar
technology and ideas?
EMBLEMS OF PRESTIGE AND WEALTH: AZTEC WARRIOR
REGALIA AS INALIENABLE WEALTH

The concept of inalienable wealth consists of several dimensions. Briefly
stated, inalienable possessions serve as symbolic and historic repositories;
they legitimate authority and identities, encourage heterogeneity and differences, and exhibit absolute value. Whatever their individual economic history, these objects maintain connections with the identity of the original
owner. If given away, they continue to carry ties to that original owner, setting up symbolic and practical obligations between donor and receiver (see
Weiner 1985, 1992).
Recall that Aztec society was highly militaristic. There were no standing
forces, but the Triple Alliance was capable of mobilizing vast armies, drawing on its own reserves as well as those of earlier conquered and obligated
peoples. Organized into a multitude of variously sized city-states, the Mexica
of Tenochtitlan, their allies, and their adversaries met frequently on the battlefield. If the imperial armies were victorious, they carried away spoils of
war, prisoners for sacrifice, and promises of sustained tribute payments; their
vanquished enemies were obligated to pay those tributes, surrender many
of their fine warriors, aid in further Triple Alliance wars, and maintain a
generally subservient stance relative to the imperial powers. On a personal
level, battlefield engagements were quite individual, and hand-to-hand combat was expected. Young men, nobles, and commoners were all trained in
the martial arts and were expected to demonstrate courage, aggressiveness,
and energy on the battlefield. The incentive to exert individual effort was
provided primarily in the form of public renown and military advancement; these were established and sealed through the bestowing of specifically
designed cloaks and military regalia by the ruler in recognition of courageous
achievements in the polity’s battles. On ceremonial occasions, these awards
publicly announced the warrior’s exploits. In practice, specifically designed
clothing, costumes, and devices corresponded to the number of enemy captives a warrior secured and offered for ritual sacrifice (Case 8.1). He wore
his résumé into battle and during special ceremonies. To what extent, and in
what ways, does this warrior apparel belong to the world of inalienable possessions and wealth? How might the dimensions of inalienable wealth shed
light on the role of warrior regalia in the Aztec world and, by extension, on
other aspects of Aztec life?

The Aztec World: An Integrated View

Figure C8.1. Rewards in cloaks and military devices earned by courageous
warriors. (From Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 64r.)

261

262

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 8.1 The Value of Things 2: Rewards for Warriors
Aztec warrior insignia consisted of a feathered warrior suit (tlahuiztli) or skirted
suit (ehuatl), along with a headdress and/or back device and a shield. These
devices entered the imperial ruler’s coffers as periodic tribute to be redistributed by him to deserving warriors and high-ranking military officers (Berdan
and Anawalt 1992; vol. 3, folio 64r; Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 549). Worn in
military and ceremonial contexts, each style represented a specific achievement
(number of battlefield captures), as follows (see Figure C8.1):
For capturing one enemy on the battlefield, the warrior is awarded a flowerdesigned cape.
For capturing two enemies on the battlefield, the warrior is awarded an orange
cape with a red border, and a cuextecatl (Huaxtec) warrior costume.
For capturing three enemies on the battlefield, the warrior is awarded a “jewel
of Ehecatl” cape and a papalotl (butterfly) back device.
For capturing four enemies on the battlefield, the warrior is awarded a cloak
with a diagonal division in black and orange, and an ocelotl (jaguar) warrior costume.
For capturing five enemies on the battlefield, the warrior is awarded an Otomí
style warrior costume and back device, and titled Otomí.
For capturing six enemies (especially those of Huexotzinco) on the battlefield,
the warrior is awarded a warrior costume and pamitl (banner) back device,
along with the title Quachic.
(The Codex Mendoza [Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 4, folio 64r])

Symbolic and Historic Repositories
Inalienable properties serve as symbolic repositories of past histories, whether
they be cosmological, dynastic, genealogical, or ethnic. Essentially, inalienable
properties document meaningful social and temporal connections (Weiner
1985: 210).
Aztec warriors displayed their martial regalia on military and ceremonial
occasions. Worn on the battlefield, martial insignia heralded the achievements
of the wearer who, “well armed and dressed in spectacular war attire, with
many colored feathers over the quilted cotton armor ... went into the field”
(Durán 1994: 184). The officers took the lead, displaying splendid devices and
providing a rallying point for their forces.1
Beyond this, these costumes embodied an entire constellation of historical and cultural potencies, “making people and things more than they are”
(Weiner 1985: 224). Wearing these devices enhanced the warriors’ perceived
power over their enemies, who, of course, were likewise attired and should
have felt equally empowered. Some fear surely accompanied these beliefs: prior
to a major battle, a captain addressed his Aztec forces by saying, “Consider also
that you will not be fighting jaguars or pumas or demons, nor do they have

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
mouths so large that they will swallow you. They are men of flesh and bones,
as we are” (Durán 1994: 163). And yet the Aztecs were quite content to feel
empowered by their own devices – they wore these “to inspire fear in the
enemies” (Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 335; Seler 1992: 57). In Seler’s words
(1992: 58), these insignia were “clearly intended to cause the wearer to appear
as a frightful character, or to endow him with the power of a dreaded being.”
Some of this power derived from the historical and cosmological symbolism attached to these regalia. This symbolism was not an Aztec innovation, but
rather derived from earlier times deeply respected by the Aztec latecomers. For
instance, coyote, jaguar, and eagle symbolism were prominent at Teotihuacan,
a city of immense historical and cosmological significance to the Aztecs
(Pasztory 1997; Olko 2005: 252–253). Butterfly symbolism also harked back
to Teotihuacan and to Tula (Taube 2000, 2011; Olko 2005: 259). Beyond such
mythical/historical connections, Aztec martial insignia also embodied frequent
allusions to specific supernaturals. For instance, tzitzimitl insignia represented
fearful stellar demons and “must have been intended to bring a terrifying effect
on the enemy” (Olko 2005: 256). Butterfly (papalotl) devices were associated
with the goddesses Xochiquetzal and Chantico, Cuextecatl insignia with the
goddess Teteo inan (and the Huaxtecs), quaxolotl array with the deity Xolotl,
and the “starry sky” insignia with Quetzalcoatl and the morning or evening
stars (Seler 1992: 35–36, 50–54; Olko 2005: 252–257). These were potent companions indeed to carry into battle.
Capture of martial regalia in battle was a notable feat. During pochteca and
oztomeca military encounters along the southern Pacific coast, these aggressive
Basin of Mexico merchants managed to capture three specific types of military
devices from their enemies, temporarily wearing them in battle themselves and
vanquishing their foes (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9, 6). Impressively, they defeated
powerful enemy eagle and jaguar warriors in these engagements. Following the
war, the successful merchants presented the captured devices to the Mexica
ruler Ahuitzotl. This event suggests a decrease in the power of the conquered
group as symbolized by the seizure and use of these devices by the victorious
merchants and a transfer of control of these symbols to the Aztec emperor.2
Similarly, the ruler Axayacatl reportedly received Cuextecatl (Huaxtec) warrior
regalia from defeated Huaxtecs and then incorporated them into the Mexica
martial repertoire (Olko 2005: 254; Seler 1992: 51). And Ahuitzotl’s later forays
into Huaxacac landed him a nice variety of named warrior insignia by virtue
of conquest (Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 548–549).3 The capture and rather
freewheeling adoption of enemy regalia may have been a long-standing and
fairly common practice, since the same styles were broadly distributed among
many different groups throughout central Mexico by the time of the Spanish
arrival (Olko 2005: 286). Aztec warriors later wearing captured insignia on the
battlefield made a powerful and intimidating statement of the extent of their
domination (Kenneth Hirth, personal communication 2012).

263

264

Aztec Society and Culture
Symbolically laden warrior devices were also displayed on specific ceremonial occasions, at least in Tenochtitlan. For instance, eagle and jaguar warriors
attacked scantily armored opponents in well-scripted gladiatorial sacrifices during the month of Tlacaxipehualiztli (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 47–56; Durán
1971: 177–180), and accomplished warriors wearing butterfly military devices
offered their captives in a fire sacrifice during the month of Xocotl huetzi
(Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 113).4 In these examples, public recognition was
granted brave warriors during major religious ceremonies. That recognition
entailed the warriors’ performance of pivotal ritual activities – they took center
stage in their dazzling warrior array, boasting their achievements, and proclaiming godly qualities. Religion and politics intertwined.

Symbolic and Practical Obligations between Donor and Receiver, Encouraging
Heterogeneity and Legitimating Authority and Identities
The concept of inalienable wealth also involves the authentication and maintenance of hierarchical relations. It “authenticates difference,” sustains social
hierarchies, and proclaims control over others (Weiner 1985: 224).
Apparently only a ruler had the prerogative to bestow and distribute warrior insignia to deserving individuals. Gifts of martial attire, therefore, were
decidedly one-way: they signaled and reinforced the hierarchical relations
between giver and receiver. In bestowing these insignia, the Aztec ruler drew
on ancient and revered symbolism to enhance his own position and motivate
his subjects. These were personal bestowals, as “the king himself presented [the
warrior] with a shield and a cuirass of fine featherwork” (Durán 1971: 198).
With each gift, the ruler reinforced his exalted position and control over others. Reminiscent of this idea, in the quote at the beginning of this chapter, the
military devices owned by don Julián were to be “kept,” not sold.
Martial regalia were bestowed on brave warriors, high-ranking military officers, and allied rulers before, during, and after military engagements.While still
in Tenochtitlan, the Mexica ruler summoned his mayordomo and the mayordomos of subject city-states and ordered them to deliver to him “all the
costly devices” housed in his storehouses (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 51,
65). The ruler himself then adorned the warriors who had already proved
themselves. The ruler’s mayordomos carried additional devices directly to the
battlefield, where the ruler bestowed them on other brave warriors as well as
on allied or conquered rulers.5 And then once again, following a successful
battle, the ruler granted insignia to his high-ranking officers and distinguished
warriors (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 53; Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 549).
These were immediate, one-way symbolic-material rewards that nonetheless
entailed clearly understood obligations of future loyalty and service on the
part of the recipient. On one battlefield occasion, the awardees “were highly
pleased and impressed by this action [the granting of insignia] and everyone

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
swore allegiance to the king ... if necessary [they] could die in his service during that war” (Durán 1994: 377).
Martial attire was also granted during ceremonial events. Valiant warriors,
those who had secured captives on the battlefield, were publicly and ceremonially awarded their insignia by the ruler during the monthly ceremonies of
Ochpaniztli and Tlacaxipehualiztli. And courageous warriors were granted
yellow cotton armor and designed shields by the ruler during the month of
Panquetzaliztli (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 123, 124; Durán 1971: 183).
Aztec society was extremely status-conscious, and this little realm involving martial insignia was no exception. However accomplished they were in
battle, nobles and commoners were treated differently in the matter of rewards.
Durán (1971: 195–200) states that this difference was signaled by separate titles,
bestowal ceremonies, and specific attire. For instance, nobles reportedly were
granted costumes of featherwork, while achieved commoners received attire
made of animal skins (Durán 1971: 200). This is questionable, as it appears
that military costumes and devices were customarily constructed of feathers;
perhaps more likely is the possibility that commoner attire was made of “ordinary” rather than “precious” feathers (see Codex Mendoza [Berdan and Anawalt
1992: vol. 4]).
Whether in military or ceremonial contexts, these acts of gift giving
highlighted and cemented essential yet lopsided links between the ruler and
his elite military cadre and achieved commoner warriors. The actual military
devices and insignia served as specific physical authentications of these ties,
responsibilities, power relations, and social distinctions.6

Maintaining Connections with the Identity of the Original Owner
A further dimension of inalienable properties is that “they are perceived to
belong in an inherent way to their original owners” (Weiner 1985: 210). This
dimension of inalienable wealth is the most weakly demonstrated in the Aztec
case. Granted, the ruler personally and publicly bestowed military honors, and
the insignia were laden with responsibilities to the ruler on the part of the
recipients. But the insignia themselves appear to have been tied not to a particular ruler, but rather to dynasties, city-states, or even ethnic groups such as
Huaxtec, Otomí, or Totonac (see especially Olko 2005: 466–468).
However, there are some enticing suggestions of more personal connections. For instance, when a warrior prepared his battlefield captive for sacrifice
at an unspecified ceremony, “Moctezuma presented the captor a device [with]
quetzal feather cups so that possessing it he might slay him as a sacrifice. It
did not belong to him; but having it he slew the victim, and he danced with
it” (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 8, 84).7 More specifically, during the month of
Tlacaxipehualiztli, a captor wearing his warrior insignia offered his captive for
sacrifice, “[a]nd when he had gone everywhere ... then he left the insignia at

265

266

Aztec Society and Culture
the palace (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 2, 54). It appears to have been the property of the ruler and on loan for the event, in contrast to those devices gifted
to achieved warriors as rewards.8
On balance, connections of bestowed warrior regalia with a particular ruler
seem rather tenuous. More significantly, the regalia were replete with ancient
tradition and cosmological symbolism. They were much older and grander
than the domain of a single ruler.

The Matter of Heritability and Transferability
The concept of inalienable wealth includes some latitude in the extent to
which such objects may be transferred or circulated. There is recognition that
“such possessions, from time to time, are exchanged, lost in warfare, destroyed
by rivals, sold, or are unclaimed” (Weiner 1992: 37). According to Weiner (1985:
219), the ultimate expression of inalienability is the complete removal of such
objects from circulation – there is no inheritance, no exchange, no regifting.
This appears to be largely the case with Aztec military regalia presented to
deserving warriors.
Rulers obtained warrior costumes and insignia as tribute imposed on conquered city-states, through production at the royal palaces, and as prizes gained
in warfare. This was a continual process of acquisition, for once given, these
insignia became the singular property of the recipient and did not recirculate. Deserving warriors might receive more than one such device, but “all
of these can be used by them always, and by no others” (Durán 1994: 235).
They were not transferable, although they could be lost in the heat of battle.
Nor do they appear to have been inherited, as the records suggest that they
were most likely burned and buried with their deceased owners (e.g., Alvarado
Tezozomoc 1975a: 614; Boone 1983: folios 67r, 69r; Durán 1994: 149–152; Olko
2005: 466). This may have been the ideal; the survival of some warrior insignia
as personal possessions well past the Spanish conquest suggests either that this
was not always the case or that the heritability of these devices changed under
Spanish rule, as in the quote initiating this chapter (e.g., Lockhart et al. 2006:
45; Anderson et al. 1976).

Absolute versus Commercial Value
Considering their symbolic and social attributes, the value of inalienable objects
derives from the circumstances that keep them out of circulation (Weiner 1985:
210), or at least confine them to a limited area – “their unique, subjective identity gives them absolute value placing them above the exchangeability of one
thing for another” (Weiner 1992: 33). It is their accumulated symbolic and
historical baggage, and their social entailments, that determine their value, not
their perceived material worth in a commercial sense.

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
How do Aztec warrior regalia measure up on this dimension? These military
devices were produced throughout the Empire and entered the imperial ruler’s coffers through political avenues: tribute, palace-centered production, and
captured booty.9 It is interesting that they do not appear in the documentary
record as commercial goods carried to or from the ruler or sold privately by
professional merchants (pochteca).10 They appear ambiguously as commodities
in the Tlatelolco marketplace11 or as gifts from other rulers to the dominant
Mexica emperor. And while the ruler enjoyed gambling with all manner of
precious goods, warrior costumes and insignia were not among them (Sahagún
1950–82: book 8, 58).
These insignia may have been more prevalent in the markets in the earlier
years of the Empire. During the reign of the first Motecuhzoma (r. 1440–1468),
the Mexica second-in-command, Tlacaelel, eloquently stated that brave warriors no longer needed to purchase elegant attire and adornments (including
insignia and shields) in the marketplaces; rather, the ruler would bestow them
“as payment and prize for heroic feats, for memorable deeds ... so that he can
display these as proof of his worth” (Durán 1994: 234). This suggests that there
may have been a significant change in policy as the Empire embarked on
major expansionist efforts. Previously alienable goods became inalienable.

Warrior Regalia Embedded in the Aztec Economic, Social, Political, and
Symbolic World
Economically, the production of elaborate warrior insignia required skilled
hands, meticulous procedures, and valuable raw materials. The level of specialization and effort suggests high valuation, yet these objects did not enter the
economy as commercial goods. Rather, they served as political and social capital. Indeed, in the Aztec imperial world (commercial as it was), it is likely that
the value of these objects was even further enhanced by their virtual removal
from the commercial sector: this considerable economic investment targeted
political, social, and ceremonial priorities. Used and displayed in these contexts,
the warrior regalia proclaimed the power of the ruler, increasing his ability
to control economic production and exchange in general. It appears to have
been a sound and advantageous investment strategy. In addition, the frequent
redistribution of these objects and their systematic removal from use and circulation resulted in the need for continuous production efforts on the part of
highly skilled artisans.
Objects transferred as inalienable property linked donor and receiver in
functionally useful and symbolically meaningful relationships. In this case,
warrior attire affirmed and sealed specific social and political distinctions.
Transfers of these objects stressed differences in social position and acknowledged relations of dominance and subordination: distribution of the objects
was the prerogative of the ruler and the ruler alone.

267

268

Aztec Society and Culture
The symbolism associated with warrior regalia was decidedly cosmological,
mythical, and historical. It proclaimed links to powerful gods and a revered past.
Adorned with these deified images and ancient symbols, a warrior facing his
enemy on the battlefield or displaying his achievements in public ceremonies
carried powers and traditions beyond his mere mortal self. It is understandable
why such empowerment was associated with warfare, as so much of Aztec life
converged on warfare and conquest. The symbolism was esoteric, but at the
same time it was practical and consistent with Aztec cultural priorities.
A WORLD SYSTEM

World systems theory was initially developed by Immanuel Wallerstein (1974)
to explain the development of our post-medieval global economy. He proposed the notion of world systems as “composed of multiple sociocultural
systems bound through a single division of labor that transcends cultural and
political boundaries” (Kepecs and Kohl 2003: 14). These systems are achieved
through a network of dependencies whereby a “core” dominates “peripheries,” these linkages sometimes mediated by “semiperipheries.” The relationships among these areas (or nations) are asymmetrical, with the core exploiting
peripheries and maintaining their dominance through the “development of
underdevelopment” (Frank 1966). In this theory, the economies characterizing these interrelationships are based on the production and distribution
of bulk goods, most notably food and fuels. Wallerstein gave pride of place to
the economy in the modern capitalist world system, contending that smaller
pre-modern world systems were bound politically rather than economically
(Kepecs and Kohl 2003: 15).
As might be expected, this theory stimulated almost immediate responses
from scholars of both modern and ancient systems. Pertinent to the ancient
scene, scholars saw several problems with Wallerstein’s theory, especially (1) the
simplification of cores and peripheries, which failed to take into account the
vast variety of these societies/regions and their myriad relationships; (2) the
disconnect between the theory and empirical cases that showed that many
areas defined as peripheries were far from underdeveloped and often exerted
profound influences on cores; (3) the focus on bulk goods and lack of consideration of the significance of luxuries in these relationships; and (4) the emphasis
on political integration in pre-modern world systems and diminished importance given to nonpolitical economic factors such as markets (e.g., Schneider
1977; Blanton and Feinman 1984; Chase-Dunn and Hall 1997; Kepecs and
Kohl 2003; Smith and Berdan 2003c).
These issues have been confronted by scholars of late Postclassic
Mesoamerica, resulting in significant alterations to the original theory and
yielding an empirically supported understanding of the dynamic world system
experienced by the Aztecs during their brief, century-long imperial period

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
(Blanton and Feinman 1984; Smith and Berdan 2003c). This short time frame
saw important transformations and developments throughout Mesoamerica:
an explosive population growth, a proliferation of small polities, an increase
in the volume of long-distance trade, an increase in the diversity of trade
goods at all levels, greater commercialization of the economy, new forms of
iconography and writing, and new patterns of symbolic and stylistic interaction, all yielding higher degrees of cultural integration and uniformity than
was present in earlier periods (Smith and Berdan 2003a: 6–9). This section of
Chapter 8 characterizes this complex world system, taking the four issues just
enumerated as a springboard.

The Nature of Cores and Peripheries
For Aztec-period Mesoamerica, Wallerstein’s framework of core–periphery–
semiperiphery is too simplistic. In the first place, while the Aztecs built an
impressive empire from their home base of Tenochtitlan, this oversized city
(and the Basin of Mexico generally) was not the only core in Mesoamerica
during the imperial period. Other cores dominated their own regions and
competed, often successfully, with Aztec expansionism. Primary among these
were Cholula/Tlaxcallan to the east, the Lake Patzcuaro Basin (Tarascan
Empire) to the west, and, somewhat more weakly, the Mixteca/Valley of
Oaxaca region (Smith and Berdan 2003b). The first two, especially, stood as
bulwarks against the formidable Aztec armies, with Cholula also a magnet for
trade goods and pilgrims. The presence of these additional cores in the Aztec
world meant that all roads did not always or necessarily lead to Tenochtitlan –
Aztec rulers could not rest on their predecessors’ laurels, but needed to constantly reassert their dominance through expensive feasting, diplomacy, the
establishment of frontier forts and garrisons, impressive military campaigns,
and serious reprisals for those who rebelled. The other cores, for their part,
not only resisted and repelled Aztec expansion but also created nagging problems for imperial coherence. Maintaining client states and a network of forts
and garrisons along the Aztec–Tarascan frontier was costly to the Aztecs, and
Aztec rulers needed to be ever on the alert to the political intrigues of the
Tlaxcallans in their frontier regions (see Chapter 5). During the last couple of
decades before the Spanish arrival, the Mixteca/Valley of Oaxaca was a hotbed of rebellions and commanded disproportionate military attention from
Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin.
Second, the peripheries attached to these cores were far from uniform as
described in the traditional world systems model, and they were not necessarily
areas politically and militarily incorporated into the imperial thrall.The dynamics of the Aztec world system are more revealing when four types of peripheral
regions are differentiated.“Affluent production zones” are regions of high economic production and wealth but lacking the same degree of urbanization and

269

270

Aztec Society and Culture
political centralization as found in cores. Areas such as Morelos, the Valley of
Oaxaca, coastal Veracruz, northern Yucatán, and highland Guatemala all exhibited affluence based on reliable staple resource production supplemented by
other local resources that were often geared toward export.The term “resource
extraction zones” identifies areas of highly specialized raw material production such as the procurement of metals, obsidian, greenstones, and salt. By
virtue of their specializations, they were linked commercially to other regions.
“Unspecialized peripheral zones” are actually only vaguely defined, being areas
of lower, unspecialized production with relatively small populations. They are,
unfortunately, also areas with relatively little historical or archaeological documentation. “Contact peripheries,” such as the Greater Southwest and lower
Central America, lie just beyond the bounds of the world system. These areas
had less contact with the defined world system but were nonetheless bound
to it; a significant case in point is the abundant and symbolically important
turquoise obtained from the Greater Southwest (Smith and Berdan 2003b).
None of these categories, or the areas included within them, is set in concrete.
For instance, Carmack and Salgado González (2006) argue for the inclusion of
portions of lower Central America into the Mesoamerican world system.

The Mutual Relations among Cores and Peripheries
Core zones were characterized by urbanization, large populations, and a concentration of political power. However, in the Aztec world, cores did not necessarily dominate peripheries as completely as proposed in the classic world
systems model. The relationships between cores and these various peripheries
were highly variable, and the forces generating interaction and change did not
always emanate from the cores.This is not to minimize the fact that the Aztecs
were still the conquerors and did command a share of their subjects’ labor and
production through tribute and other special demands. The Aztecs were not
shy about exercising and expressing their military dominance over others –
nowhere was this more conspicuous than in the practice of large-scale human
sacrifices of captured enemies.
Yet peripheries were unique and innovative in their own right and in some
cases exerted an influence on their cores. This can be seen, for instance, in
regional designs of textiles and warrior costumes. Much of the clothing tribute
received by the imperial powers carried designs characteristic of distant regions
and represented specific ethnicities; rather than imposing imperial clothing
designs on their conquered peoples, the Aztecs often accepted and incorporated others’ designs into their own repertoires (see Anawalt 1981). Even some
warrior costume styles were adopted by the overlords: a specific case in point
is the Cuextecatl warrior costume, characteristic of the eastern Huaxtecs yet a
style awarded to Aztec warriors who had succeeded in capturing their second
enemy (Berdan 1992b).12 Some peripheral areas developed innovative artistic

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
and writing styles that gained widespread acceptance across political borders.13
This was the case with the well-known Mixteca-Puebla style, which “became
a crucial component in the systems of regional and long-distance communication and exchange among diverse polities and languages in Mesoamerica”
(Smith and Berdan 2003a: 8). The Aztecs were receptive not only to external
styles, but also to more fundamental cultural features; for instance, the adoption of other groups’ deities was a well-established Mesoamerican pattern that
continued after the Spanish conquest (as discussed later). The innovative character of peripheries has been generally underestimated by modern scholars;
Galaty (2011: 15) argues persuasively that “agentive action is at its most vigorous in such [frontier] zones” and “world-systemic change stems from border
regions.”
With multiple cores at work, peripheries became not only areas to be
exploited, but also areas to be enlisted in strengthening one core against another.
As a case in point, recall that the Tlaxcallans more than once enticed the eastern
Aztec province of Cuetlaxtlan into rebellion to strengthen their own position
vis-à-vis the Aztec Empire (see Chapter 5). People in peripheries were equally
capable of enlisting the aid of more powerful groups (cores) to their own advantage: again, recall the case of Coatlan, whose people rebelled against their own
ruler and requested Mexica aid in their internal rebellion (Chapter 5).
These relationships were complex and volatile. Core–core, core–periphery, and periphery–periphery relations were subject to change at a moment’s
notice, and it often took very little to shift from friend to foe and vice versa.
For instance, Cholula was an on-again, off-again ally of the Aztecs, these relations fluctuating almost annually during the last years of the Empire. Cholula’s
proximity to the Aztecs’ archenemy, the Tlaxcallans, undoubtedly placed it
in an especially awkward position. People of nearby Huexotzinco, a citystate frequently allied with Tlaxcallan against the Aztecs, at one time fell out
with Tlaxcallan and sought asylum at Tenochtitlan. This was granted, and the
Huexotzincos resided there for some time before returning home (Durán
1994: 446–451). In peripheral areas, competing city-states often clashed, with
less powerful centers sometimes caught in the cross fire. So in the Oaxaca
region, the city-state of Ixtepexi reportedly paid tribute to both the Mexica
and the Mixtecs, while at the same time carrying on wars with other polities in
the region (Berdan et al. 1996: 281). Apparently serving more than one master
was a workable strategy, if only temporarily.

The Significance of Luxuries
Although Wallerstein focused on bulk goods in his world systems model, persuasive arguments have been made supporting the significant role played by
luxuries in those systems (see Schneider 1977; Blanton and Feinman 1984;
Kepecs and Kohl 2003; Smith and Berdan 2003c).There is no question that the

271

272

Aztec Society and Culture
provisioning of staple foodstuffs was central to the maintenance of the surging
Aztec-period populations. Nonetheless, alongside the production and distribution of bulk foodstuffs14 were the acquisition and manufacture of luxuries, themselves contributing to the vitality of social, political, and religious institutions.
Socially, these luxuries served as the Aztecs’ most conspicuous status
markers, identifying a person’s specific niche in the complex social order.
Politically, these fine goods cemented alliances through feasting and gift
giving, and reinforced relations between a ruler and his subjects through
bestowals at designated ceremonial occasions. Additionally, when a ruler or
high-ranking noble appeared in public, exquisitely adorned from head to
foot, his very appearance instilled awe and proclaimed extraordinary power.
Precious goods also served religious ends, for only the finest luxuries were
fit as godly displays and offerings, and they were necessary to ensure good
relations with the supernatural world (see Chapter 7). The contents of the
numerous caches surrounding Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor serve as mute
evidence of this cultural priority.
Luxuries in the Aztec world not only operated as prestige goods (controlled
by the nobility), but also, by Aztec times, had been transformed into commercial
luxury goods. For instance, while some featherworkers were directly employed
by the ruler, others worked independently and sold their wares in the marketplaces. Similarly, long-distance professional merchants (pochteca) brought precious
stones, metals, feathers, shells, and other fine raw and finished materials directly
to the Aztec emperor. They also operated as independent entrepreneurs, using
the same types of goods to accumulate considerable personal wealth. While the
upper echelons of Aztec society consumed by far the greatest share of these
fancy and expensive goods, commoners could and did possess them in spite
of stated laws prohibiting their display by those people (see Cases 6.1 and 8.2).
Bottom line: these were not just prestige goods controlled by elites, but also luxury commodities bought and sold in the numerous marketplaces.
The trajectory of imperial expansion appears to have responded, at least
in part, to an increasing need for luxuries on the part of an expanding and
demanding elite in the Aztec core. Other elites, living in the various peripheral regions, also required luxuries to flaunt their political and social supremacy. All of this lent increasing importance to (and competition over) affluent
production and resource extraction zones, reinforcing the roles of these areas
within the overall world system. While there were always political overtones,
these relations became more and more commercialized as the Mesoamerican
Postclassic period progressed.

The Defining and Dynamic Roles of Trade and Markets
The Postclassic economy was a commercialized economy (Blanton et al. 1993;
Smith and Berdan 2003c). Markets were central to every city-state of any size,

The Aztec World: An Integrated View

273

Case 8.2 Foreign Goods and What They Tell Us
In the Postclassic Mesoamerican world, goods, people, and ideas moved about,
crossing political borders and enriching people’s lives throughout that known
world. Commoners as well as rulers enjoyed goods from beyond their immediate areas, and merchants particularly benefited from the widespread movement
of luxury and utilitarian wares. A glimpse of some foreign goods in the palace
and on the person of Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin, in a commoner household
in Aztec-period Morelos, and in a trading canoe along the coast of present-day
Honduras (Bay Islands) provides a sense of the extent of world system impacts
on people occupying different rungs of the social ladder.

Figure C8.2. (above and on next two pages) Maps of world systems commodities and
their movements. (Drawings by Jennifer Berdan.)

Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin in Tenochtitlan: A Selection (Figure C8.2a)
Material/Object

Source

Polychrome pottery
Turquoise (diadem)
Tropical feathers (headdress)
Greenstones (jewelry)
Cotton (clothing)
Gold (ornaments)
Jaguar skins (seat, sandals)
Amber (labret)
Chocolate
Rubber (balls, drum hammers)

Cholula
Southwest U.S., northern Mexico
Tropical regions, tributary provinces
Southern Mesoamerica
Temperate and tropical zones
Oaxaca region
Southern Mesoamerica
Chiapas
Tropical zones
Lowlands, Gulf coast

274

Aztec Society and Culture
Exotic goods found their way into ruler’s palace and one-room commoner
house alike. There is no surprise in finding such goods in a noble establishment.
It is more surprising to find polychrome pottery and jade jewelry in a commoner’s dwelling.Yet it was apparently possible for non-nobles to possess these
fine and expensive goods, some with sumptuary associations. The emphasis was,
perhaps, more strictly on display than on possession. If one could afford polychrome pottery, then one could have it, and some commoners were clearly more
prosperous than others (Smith 1977: 61). Bottom line: even from our small current sample, one can see the commercial market system energetically at work. A
ruler may have acquired a great many of his foreign goods through tribute (the
tribute-paying province sometimes obtaining these goods from outside its own
boundaries; see Chapter 5). But commoners had no such option, looking to the
market for their products, provisions, and manufactured goods.

Figure C8.2. (continued)

A Commoner Household in a Community in Morelos (Smith 1997) (Figure C8.2b)
Material/Object

Source

Decorated pots
Obsidian blades
Bronze needles
Salt
Polychrome pottery
Jade jewelry

Basin of Mexico
100 km away
Western Mexico
Basin of Mexico
Cholula
Southern Mexico / Guatemala

The Aztec World: An Integrated View

275

In Aztec-period Mexico, merchants traded long-distance and down-the-line,
often acquiring goods at stops along their established trade routes.The commodities seen in this particular trading canoe came from throughout Mesoamerica.
While these Mayan merchants may have acquired the cacao and textiles from
actual producers, it is less likely that they dealt directly with the obsidian and
bronze artifact producers. Rather, they more likely obtained these goods from
other traveling merchants or from market vendors who acquired the distant goods
as they changed hands from market to market. Bottom line: the Mesoamerican
world system was sufficiently integrated to allow for locally and regionally produced goods to cross political and cultural borders while still retaining their utilitarian and prestige values. Mechanisms were available for goods (and the people
who carried them) to move about throughout the world system, affording similar
material experiences for people far and wide.

Figure C8.2. (continued)

A Mayan Trading Canoe off the Coast of Honduras (Smith and Berdan 1996: 3)
(Figure C8.2c)
Material/Object

Source

Obsidian knives and swords
Cacao beans
Bronze axes and bells
Crucibles for smelting copper
Cotton (fancy textiles)

Highland Mexico
Tropical lowlands
Western Mexico
Unknown
Temperate and tropical zones

276

Aztec Society and Culture
and the famous Tlatelolco marketplace was a throbbing hub of exchange (not
to mention transmission of news and rumor). At this high-end marketplace,
vendors ranged from local producers of small surpluses to local and regional
artisans of utilitarian and luxury goods, to long-distance merchants carrying
expensive exotic goods from distant regions. Their customers were even more
diverse. Other marketplaces were more regional or local in scale, some only
occasionally receiving visits from the widely traveled merchants, but virtually
all of them enjoying the offerings of regional merchants. Whatever the scale,
these markets served as venues for the buying and selling of commodities
through the use of barter and money, and they welcomed entrepreneurs (even
though outsiders were often accused of cheating).
The impact of traveling merchants on the integration of the economy
should not be underestimated – they were vigorous agents of change and
integration. Highland goods from central Mexico (such as obsidian and gold)
became part of lowland material culture. Lowland goods (such as cacao, fine
salt, and colorful bird feathers) became essential elements of highland daily life
(especially among elites). Merchants characteristically traveled across city-state
and imperial boundaries. Using marketplaces to serve their entrepreneurial
goals, regional and long-distance merchants moved large quantities of valuable
goods from region to region throughout the world system, making these commodities widely available. In addition, many luxuries, at first exotic, became
transformed into necessities by high-ranking persons. It is easy to speak of this
economy as an international economy.
Particularly pertinent to the economic integration of Aztec-period
Mesoamerica as a world system were the myriad international trade centers (Gasco and Berdan 2003). These should be distinguished from the earlier notion of “ports of trade” (Chapman 1957), which were conceived as
essentially neutral trading zones serving political purposes. Recent reevaluations of this model reveal that these same venues were highly commercialized
locales serving primarily economic purposes (Berdan 1978; Gasco and Berdan
2003). There were a great many of them in Late Postclassic Mesoamerica.
The proliferation of these centers suggests a vigorous commercial economy and entrepreneurial culture. They generally were established in strategic locations between polities or environmental zones, exhibited sustained
commercial activity, and served as centers where international, regional, and
local trade networks intersected: they “not only provided practical facilities
and profitable interactions for long-distance merchants, but also were hotbeds for more-local and regional economic exchange activities” (Gasco and
Berdan 2003: 115–116). In other words, these flourishing commercial centers
stimulated economic activity at all levels. Although safe and relatively neutral, international trading centers typically also displayed a political side. For
instance, Cholula was politically ambiguous and volatile in its alliances and
wars; it also drew pilgrims. Tlatelolco was located at the heart of imperial

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
administration. Xicalanco on the southern Gulf coast welcomed highland and
lowland merchants, albeit with an Aztec political presence (Gasco and Berdan
2003). Nonetheless, the politics must have been sufficiently muted to attract a
wide variety of merchants with entrepreneurial intents.
It can be argued that the Aztec commercial economy was an expanding economy. Some of the stimulus for this growth was profit-oriented, while some was
politically and religiously generated. An increased demand for status-linked luxuries responded to an increase in the number of elite persons and the intensity
of competition among them. Demand for battlefield weaponry and equipment
increased as warfare itself increased. For example, the relatively easy destruction
of obsidian weapons in combat generated a continual demand for those stones
and the artisans who shaped them. Since obsidian is barely seen on tribute lists,
these high-demand materials and items had to be obtained commercially, and
the high demand heightened the importance of their resource extraction zones.
Furthermore, goods were constantly being taken out of circulation through
general breakage, personal burials, and multitudes of ritual offerings.
Anthropologists and historians emphasize the rapid and traumatic changes
to indigenous life after the Spanish conquest. And rightly so.Yet we have seen
that the culturally diverse people of the politically and economically dynamic
Aztec world also underwent marked transformations during the century prior
to Spanish arrival.The people from across the sea that the Mesoamerican people encountered in the early sixteenth century were unexpected and unfamiliar, and creative and determined responses were necessary to ensure survival
under the newly imposed regime.
A CULTURE UNDER DURESS: AZTEC RESPONSES TO
SPANISH PRESSURE

The Mexica, as leaders of the Aztec Empire, had faced defeat before. Most
notably, they had been severely trounced by the Tarascans and had routinely
suffered heavy losses in their unsuccessful incursions against the Tlaxcallans
(see Case 8.3). For the Mexica, these and other setbacks had taken place on
neutral or enemy ground, not in Tenochtitlan. Only once had their enemies
come close to wreaking havoc in the Mexica capital: during the reign of the
second Motecuhzoma, enemy Huexotzincas burned the temple of Toci (along
with its wooden sacrificial scaffold) on the outskirts of the city. This daring
outrage was considered an “enormous sacrilege” and threw the city into “a
state of confusion and terror” (Durán 1994: 457–458).
Now, suddenly, war had come to Tenochtitlan. The arrival of a determined
group of Spanish conquistadores, supported by a multitude of disaffected native
imperial subjects and enemies, created an entirely new experience for the
Mexica: war on their own turf. This story has been told many times and will
not be reiterated in detail here.15 Whichever side a native person or group

277

278

Aztec Society and Culture
Case 8.3 Desperate Rivals and the Fate of a World
When the Spanish forces moved inland in the late summer of 1519, they were
led by their new Cempoallan allies to the powerful realm of Tlaxcallan. But
their ultimate goal was not Tlaxcallan, but rather the domain of the famous
and feared Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin, tlatoani of the Mexica and head of the
empire under the Triple Alliance. Nonetheless, the Cempoallans insisted that
the newcomers would need the support of Tlaxcallan, which remained independent of the militarily expansionistic Triple Alliance.
But why had the powerful Aztec Triple Alliance not already conquered
Tlaxcallan? The “official script” of the Mexica explained this shortcoming:
The Mexica second-in-command, Tlacaelel, announced that “these cities
[Tlaxcallan and its neighbors] are near, they are accessible. No sooner will
our soldiers have gone there than they will be returning with captives. . . . And
this must not be a real war: we must not destroy those people but they must
be left standing so that each time our god wishes to enjoy himself and eat
warm tortillas [enemy captives], we can go to those cities” (Durán 1994: 232).
Thus the idea of the ritualized, inconclusive “flowery wars.” Whether this was
reasoning or excuse, it is clear that the battles between these two states (complicated by the on-again, off-again participation by nearby Huexotzinco and
Cholula) were conducted more and more in earnest as the Empire matured.
One of the primary agendas of the second Motecuhzoma was the conquest of
this pesky realm (see Berdan 2009b, 2009c). Indeed, Tlaxcallan was beginning
to feel the strangling effects of imperial conquests around its borders, effectively isolating it from the resources and potential aid of its neighbors. So they
met on intermediate fields of battle, to draws, with Tlaxcallan often inflicting
the greater damage. This begs the nagging question: How could the smaller
and nearly surrounded Tlaxcallan withstand the aggression of this mighty and
well-equipped empire?
Fargher et al. (2010) suggest that the key lies in the political style adopted
by Tlaxcallan, a style that contrasted with the ruler-centered governments of
the Basin of Mexico. They propose that the archaeological and ethnohistoric
evidence points to a relatively egalitarian political structure in Tlaxcallan. The
archaeological site of Tlaxcallan consists of at least twenty separate, relatively
equal neighborhoods-with-plazas rather than a single monumental and urbanized center (Fargher et al. 2011b), and the ethnohistoric evidence for “kings” in
Tlaxcallan is slim at best. While certain individuals (usually four of them) were
seen as dominant leaders at the time of the Spanish arrival, it appears that the
fundamental governmental power lay with a meritorious council. This system
resulted in “a flexible and adaptive governing system in which governing elites
were recruited based on achievement” (Fargher et al. 2010: 233). Therefore,
elite status, control of noble houses, and prominent military positions were
based on accomplishment rather than heredity. This spread political obligations and rewards broadly across the social and ethnic spectrum and ensured
a distinguished level of military leadership. It also encouraged commitment,
patriotism, and loyalty, especially among immigrant Otomí, who significantly

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
augmented Tlaxcallan’s fighting force. Tlaxcallan’s emphasis on broadly based
political opportunities and constant military readiness was supported ideologically by worship of their patron deity, Tezcatlipoca (as Camaxtli), lord of the
young warriors whose ideology was consistent with collective and egalitarian
principles. Both politically and ideologically, then, commoners were effectively
motivated and integrated into the goals of an independent Tlaxcallan. Fargher
et al. (2010: 244) suggest that with this relatively egalitarian style, “the Tlaxcaltecas were better able to repel imperial conquest.”
The ramifications of this stalemate were, of course, immense. Tlaxcallan’s
independence and subsequent support were instrumental in the Spanish conquest of the Mexica (who became increasingly isolated from their own allies).
They offered the Spaniards an impressive fighting force, strategic advice, and
sanctuary during the turbulent events of the conquest (see especially Thomas
1993). As a reward, they gained a privileged status under the new Spanish colonial regime, and their town council functioned into the seventeenth century
(see Lockhart et al. 1986; Gibson 1952).

chose in the war, the ultimate result was conquest and incorporation into a
new imperial regime, one from overseas and with unfamiliar technologies,
codes of conduct, priorities, and beliefs.
It might be asserted that a society often reveals its most basic organization
and innermost core values as well as its strengths and weaknesses when under
stress. In this case, what do native responses to their new dramatic and traumatic situation tell us about their society and culture? This was a new world in
which the Empire disintegrated but the many altepetl survived and even flourished. The native elite struggled to retain their traditional dynastic rights over
native commoners, juggling the demands of new political and social overlords.
Some commoners pursued creative means to take advantage of and incorporate themselves into their new circumstances, especially in the economic realm.
New technologies and consumption demands not only required native adjustments, but also offered new opportunities for economic livelihoods and social
advancement. And a different religion arrived, demanding adjustments to new
styles of worship.Through all of this, the Aztecs demonstrated their tenacity and
creativity in accepting, rejecting, or, more often, blending the old and the new.

What Happened to the Aztec Empire?
It did not take Hernán Cortés long to discover the strengths and weaknesses of
the Aztec Empire he faced. He first learned that a Mexica named Motecuhzoma
was the most feared and powerful lord of the land, head of an extensive empire.
Yet shortly after landing on Mexican shores in 1519, he and his conquistadores

279

280

Aztec Society and Culture
also realized the willingness of the ruler of the city-state of Cempoallan to join
him in overthrowing the rule of this powerful Motecuhzoma and his domination. Cortés found this “divide and conquer” strategy extremely effective as he
brought more and more disaffected Aztec subjects and even allies to his side,
at the same time enlisting long-term Aztec enemies, especially the Tlaxcallans.
At one point he held Motecuhzoma captive but perhaps did not completely
comprehend that political rule did not fully reside in this one man. While the
loose and fragmented structure of the Empire was a weakness in the face of
the Spanish threat, Mexica politics proved to be stronger: Motecuhzoma was
replaced by more unyielding rulers and factions who mounted a strong resistance to the Spanish incursion, at least for a short while. Tenochtitlan finally
fell into Spanish hands with the capture of Cuauhtemoc on August 13, 1521.
Even during the war of conquest, the indigenous people were already feeling
the effects of a looming new world order: the disintegration of the Empire,
the destruction of the great city of Tenochtitlan, and an enormous loss of life.16
Their world was to be transformed in the century to come, although much
that was familiar endured.
The Aztec Empire was dissolved and replaced by New Spain, Spain’s colonial jurisdiction encompassing most of present-day Mexico. Nonetheless,
the basic building blocks of community life persisted, as they had well before
the construction of the pre-Columbian empire. These were the tenacious
altepetl and their constituent calpolli or tlaxilacalli. Before the formation of the
Aztec Empire and under its hegemony, the many altepetl constituted a fragmented and competitive landscape. Now that empire was gone, replaced by
the new Spanish imperial administration, and each altepetl reasserted itself as
the nucleus of native life. These communities were well accustomed to volatile relations with others: from time to time they had been conquered and
paid tribute to overlords, from time to time they had enjoyed political autonomy, and from time to time they had fought violent wars or forged alliances
with their neighbors. Now they were ruled by a new administrative order
that was in some ways familiar, in other ways novel to the indigenous inhabitants. In the realm of the familiar, they once again paid tribute to an overlord, although some of the actual content of those demands changed under
Spanish rule: coinage was commonly assessed, but so too were indigenous
items such as textiles, cacao, and pottery, as well as turkeys, salt, and firewood
to maintain the Spanish noble’s household.17 In addition, some pre-Hispanic
relationships among altepetl continued, albeit in altered form: violent wars
and alliances were recast in the form of conflicts over land and labor rights
that were widely litigated under Spanish rule. Altepetl also continued, at least
to some extent, to be associated with ethnicities (Berdan et al. 2008). Some
of these community-based ethnic identities continue today in areas of concentrated native populations.18 Recognition of these changes, especially the
dissolution of the Aztec Empire, has prompted modern scholars to adjust

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
ethnic labels; the term “Nahua” has become the accepted designation of
Nahuatl-speakers after the Spanish conquest.
In the realm of the unfamiliar, these tenacious altepetl became, in a rough
sense, the bases for Spanish encomienda grants, parish jurisdictions, and the establishment of Spanish municipal councils, or cabildos. These typically consisted of
elected officials, including a governor, alcaldes, and regidores, along with a notary
and various other functionaries. Early on, the city-state’s tlatoani typically was
elected as governor (often repeatedly),19 although this dynastic connection
became less and less common within a few generations after the conquest. As
the dynastic ruler’s powers waned, his rights and responsibilities were transferred to the cabildo: tax assessments, the formation of labor drafts, oversight
of public construction projects, and the maintenance of order (Lockhart 1992;
Lockhart et al. 1986: 1). In general, during the first hundred years following the
conquest, “the cabildo came to assume the powers and functions of the dynastic rulership while at the same time maintaining and reinforcing the integrity
of the individual altepetl” (Berdan 1993: 181).
Not only did the overarching imperial structure dissolve, but the very people who occupied that extensive domain became disastrously diminished.
Shockingly, unfamiliar diseases wreaked havoc on a vulnerable population
lacking immunity to epidemic diseases such as smallpox, measles, influenza,
and perhaps typhus. People perished on an unprecedented scale: the first epidemic hit Tenochtitlan during its siege (claiming, among others, the Mexica
tlatoani Cuitlahuac) and then in successive waves from 1545 to 1547, 1576 to
1581, and 1629 to 1631. Modern estimates of population loss in the Basin of
Mexico range from one-half to five-sixths within fifty years after the conquest (Gibson 1964: 138); the Nahuatl-speaking population may have numbered a mere 200,000 people by the end of the 1576–1581 epidemic (Smith
2003d: 281).20 A population decline of roughly two-thirds is estimated for the
Cholula-Puebla region to the east, and a more disastrous 75–80 percent loss
in the Morelos area just to the south of the Basin of Mexico (Sanders 1992:
130–131).The humid lowlands generally fared even more poorly, in some cases
losing entire communities.21
These were staggering losses. Beyond their personal and emotional impact,
the scale of these deaths tore at the very fabric of native social, economic, political, and religious life. Some of the heavy losses encouraged the Spanish policy
of congregación, or the dislocation and moving of surviving people from small
settlements into more concentrated communities. Even apart from this policy, some survivors left their traditional lands and communities, compromising their ethnic identity and community loyalties. Others faced famine as the
demands of sick relatives and neighbors placed strains on their ability to plant
fields and reap harvests. Some specializations were at risk as their well-trained
and skilled practitioners died off. In some cases, the rights and lands of titled
and entitled nobles were lost as these dynastic lines died out. Those nobles

281

282

Aztec Society and Culture
who did survive sometimes had difficulty keeping their lands productive;
for instance, “In Tetzcoco in 1589, a noble widow complained that her late
husband’s scattered lands could no longer be cultivated because none of the
dependents who worked them were left; all had died” (Lockhart 1992: 113).
Aside from highland–lowland distinctions, the epidemics were brutally nonselective: it mattered not at all that the Tlaxcallans and others were Spanish allies
during the war of conquest or that elites enjoyed a more elevated lifestyle than
commoners.

What Happened to the Aztec Elite?
The Spanish conquest imposed new lords on the land. This did not mean,
however, that indigenous nobles immediately or totally lost their traditional
rights or that they could no longer pursue their favored lifestyle. These rights
were, of course, now granted under Spanish auspices, but they included many
familiar perquisites: traditional titles, land grants, rights to commoner tributes,
commoners’ support of the nobles’ households, and sumptuary symbols.
Within these familiar contours, nobles were assimilated into the new colonial order. A tlatoani now usually became governor of his altepetl (as already
seen), control of labor was institutionalized in Spanish encomiendas (also held
by native nobles), and new status symbols appeared. At an especially exalted
level, in 1526 Tecuichpo, a daughter of Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin, was
awarded Tlacopan (today’s Tacuba) and some surrounding lands in encomienda;
“by the late sixteenth century this was the largest surviving encomienda in the
Valley of Mexico” (Thomas 1993: 594).22 In his 1566 will, don Julián de la
Rosa, a nobleman of Tlaxcallan, bequeathed several plots of cultivated lands
(some with houses); he also passed on rights to the production of his dependent commoners, including “one turkey cock each, 200 cacao beans, and
tamales, chiles, wood” on four Christian holidays and “two turkey cocks,
200 cacao beans and tamales, wood, chile” on a fifth holiday (Anderson et al.
1976: 51). These examples suggest control of a considerable amount of native
land and labor by indigenous nobility, at least into the latter half of the sixteenth century.
Additionally, some high-ranking nobles were granted rights to “carry swords
or firearms, to wear Spanish clothing, to ride horses or mules with saddles and
bridles” (Gibson 1964: 155). This same don Julián, in this chapter’s opening
quote, in 1566 still possessed several pre-Spanish symbols of his status, but
also a horse (and some of his goods were sold for Christian masses and the
purchase of candles). In 1579 Cuernavaca governor don Juan Jiménez possessed a horse, tackle, and eight saddles, but also four feathered headdresses,
two wooden drums, three dancing shields, and four big parrots (Haskett 1991:
163). In this same region (old Cuauhnahuac), native nobles obtained licenses
(or not) to ride horses, carry swords and daggers, and dress in Spanish clothing.

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
In the mid-1600s, one Nahua governor “resembled a Spaniard, dressed like a
Spaniard down to a pair of leather shoes with shiny buckles, and carried a knife,
sword, and musket” (Haskett 1991: 162). Other introduced possessions prized
by nobles included tables, chairs, European paper, serving spoons, and religious
images (such as crucifixes and paintings of saints) (Haskett 1991: 163–165).
These adoptions were neither complete nor simplistic, as already seen with
don Julián de la Rosa and don Juan Jiménez. Indigenous men continued to wear
their familiar capes late into the sixteenth century, although now draped over
Spanish-style shirts and trousers (Figure 8.1a);23 indigenous stone metates and
ceramic cooking pots were perched on introduced tables. Nahua and Christian
names were combined, as in Pedro Tochtli (Peter Rabbit; see Anderson et al.
1976: 85).The adoption of certain Spanish surnames proclaimed elevated social
status (Lockhart 1992: 118–127). Acquisition of these status-laden Spanish
goods and symbols was generally tightly controlled by the Spaniards.24 To possess them signaled high status in a manner reminiscent of the display of feathered adornments and jadeite ornaments in pre-Spanish times.
The colonial use of these sumptuary objects also replicated another preconquest pattern: that of elite emulation discussed in Chapter 5. Much as many
outlying nobles copied the styles of their Mexica allies or conquerors, so now
the indigenous elite incorporated Spanish styles in the same spirit of emulation, adopting the clothing, accoutrements, and living styles of their new
overlords. Elite emulation of Spanish styles was therefore a continuation of
pre-Spanish patterns.
In this new world, indigenous hereditary nobles were worried – and for good
reason. As the sixteenth century wore on, their rights and perquisites were more
and more eroded, from above by the Spaniards and from below by the native
commoners, their traditional subjects. Dynastic lines died out, and lands and
labor became appropriated by individual Spaniards and by Christian and administrative bodies. In the face of Spanish pressure on their elevated status, the native
elites did not necessarily form a united front. For instance, in Chiapa, indigenous
elite became divided into factions, some allying with the Dominican friars and
others with powerful Spanish patrons (Megged 1991: 500).Whether fragmented
or unified, over time the nobility lost its favored footing and was eventually
compressed into the encompassing category of “indios and macehualtin” (commoners). However, as an important caveat, James Lockhart (1992: 117) argues
adroitly that while the social gap between nobles and commoners narrowed
during colonial times, it nonetheless persisted to some extent, and in newly
devised ways. The question then becomes: How long did the native nobility
maintain its elevated position? There is little agreement on this answer among
modern scholars, some arguing for an erosion of native elite perquisites and
authority by the mid-seventeenth century, others seeing maintenance of those
rights for much longer (Haskett 1991: 133). Many of these disagreements may
stem from real-world regional variations. But wherever it was found, among the

283

284

Aztec Society and Culture

a

b

Figure 8.1. (a) An indigenous tailor wearing a cape over Spanish clothes in colonial times.
(From Sahagún 1950–1982: book 10, illus. 55. Courtesy University of Utah Press. Reproduced
with permission.). (b) A modern Nahua woman sewing trousers for her husband. (Photograph
by Frances Berdan.)

contributors to the deterioration of elite positions were the actions of native
commoners under the new Spanish regime.

What the Commoners Did
Under the Aztec Empire, commoners could pursue culturally accepted avenues for achieving well-being and advanced status. Among these were battlefield exploits, craft skills, trade acumen, and to a lesser extent commitment
to the priesthood. We have also seen that commoners could (and did) rise up
in opposition to their rulers (Chapter 5). Now, the presence of new lords of
the land presented new opportunities and restrictions for commoners, even as
some traditional opportunities and restrictions continued.
New opportunities emerged primarily in economic arenas, especially in
specialized production and commerce. Some Aztec-period commodities (such
as turquoise diadems and feathered shields) went out of use under Spanish
rule, and to survive artisans needed to retool. Featherworkers continued their
craft using well-honed techniques, only now producing feather mosaic objects
conforming to new iconographies and styles, especially Christian themes and
European objects such as triptychs for sacred displays. Other crafts such as
carpentry, pottery making, masonry, and canoe making thrived. Introduced
proficiencies, such as tailoring, blacksmithing, saddle and shoe making, and the
manufacture of Spanish-style musical instruments, were readily undertaken
by native commoners (Figure 8.1) (Motolinía 1950: 241–242). Trade in indigenous goods continued to be lively and energetic and remained in the hands
of native merchants. However, disengaged from royal support and no longer
transporting Aztec prestige goods, full-time high-end merchants now operated
more fully as private entrepreneurs and concentrated on cacao and other bulk

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
luxuries like salt and cotton. Local and regional tianquiztli continued to attract
all kinds of trade and traders, indeed to the present day.
Life in Europe exerted some important influences on the lives of native
colonial commoners. For instance, cochineal dye became a high-demand
commodity in Europe, and some indigenous commoners became prosperous
by concentrating on its production. Along with that prosperity came attitudes
considered the special province of native elites. In Tlaxcallan in 1553, “he who
belonged to someone no longer respects whoever was his lord and master,
because he is seen to have gold and cacao. That makes them proud and swells
them up” (Lockhart et al. 1986: 81). In that same time and place, nobles accused
these ambitious commoners of insulting them by pouring watery chocolate
drinks on the ground, thinking themselves “very grand” (Lockhart et al. 1986:
82).25 It appears that commoners were also beginning to acquire land, sold to
them by nobles: the minutes of the Tlaxcallan cabildo record an action forbidding nobles to sell their land to commoners. This suggests that commoners
had the means to make such purchases, that nobles were stressed economically,
and that nobles felt collectively threatened by this erosion of their essential
economic base.
Commoners also devised strategies to avoid traditional tribute duties;
in 1550 Tlaxcallan, nobles were worried that “all over Tlaxcala everyone is
falsely claiming nobility,” living in idleness and avoiding tribute obligations
(Lockhart et al. 1986: 72–73). Some accomplished this by moving about – they
could dodge tribute and other duties by leaving their home community and
moving into a larger center, which did not quite know what to do with the
newcomers.
There were other, regionally specific opportunities. For instance, in Chiapa
“[t]hose who spoke Spanish, even macehuales, were to be allowed to wear a
cloak, until then restricted to Spaniards and Hispanicized Indians only, to
mount horses, and to own mules.” Apparently also the holding of community offices was potentially extended to commoners who learned the Spanish
language (Megged 1991: 499). These Spanish policies of assimilation afforded
commoners unprecedented opportunities.
Alongside these new opportunities, some avenues for livelihoods and
advancement were lost to commoners. Battlefield prowess and elevation in the
priesthood were all but eliminated from their traditional avenues for advancement. Formal restrictions on their advancement continued, some newly
imposed. For example, they were officially not allowed the sumptuary symbols
boasted by the native elite. And for the most part (as described earlier) they
were prohibited from voting in community elections and from holding offices
in community councils, even though these were elected positions.
These examples of opportunities and restrictions demonstrate that, in spite
of their low position in the socioeconomic hierarchy, indigenous commoners were not always passive recipients of the new order but also behaved as

285

286

Aztec Society and Culture
proactive agents. I do not intend to paint an overly rosy picture of commoner
life in New Spain. Indeed, for the great majority of these people, work was
strenuous and the standard of living was humble. Several persons and offices
competed for and tugged at commoners’ labor and production: Spanish encomenderos, native nobles, the altepetl, the Spanish government, and friars and
other church officials. Native persons also faced conversion to an alien religion,
the possibility of physical relocation, and the threat of severe epidemics. It is
no wonder that at least some commoners sought advantageous and profitable
avenues for survival and advancement. In the course of those adaptations, commoners competed not only in a newly imposed Spanish world, but also with
the elite of their old world.

Old and New Material Things
The Aztecs (along with their predecessors and contemporaries) built their
civilizations with stone, sweat, and ingenuity. No metal tools or weapons. No
use of the wheel for transport, spinning, or pottery making.26 No large domesticated animals. And for that matter, no distillation.27 All of these, as well as
other material objects and novel crops, were introduced into their lives by the
Spaniards, and their introduction resulted in significant changes in their lives.
Along with the arrival of new materials, foods, and technologies came the
shifting of economic control and priorities. Among these, Spaniards appropriated lands for Spanish-style cultivation, subjects paid tribute in Spanish
coin, and Spanish mining enterprises reoriented native labor. New objects
such as beds, Spanish-style clothing, machetes, and metal-tipped digging sticks
appeared in native homes.
Even before the fall of Tenochtitlan, indigenous individuals had taken to
introduced Spanish tools and objects. Ashore only a short time, the Spaniards
taught coastal peoples how to make candles from native beeswax; the beeswax
was familiar, the candles novel. Candles became popular, being “safer and more
efficient” than the customary pine torches (Thomas 1993: 214). Also more efficient were Spanish swords; Figure 8.2 depicts a warrior deftly wielding a steel
sword in place of his lost, broken, or discarded macquauitl. Other significant
new implements included steel-tipped plows, steel tips added to the traditional
digging sticks, steel knives and scissors, and especially the multifunctional
machete. The plows required animal power and thus were used mainly on
Spanish farmland. Traditional cultivation was somewhat eased with the steeltipped digging sticks, and machetes gained popularity almost immediately.
Scissors were a novelty in both material and form, being especially useful in
the manufacture of Spanish-style tailored clothing. Yet the Spaniards affected
the native textile industry more profoundly than the superficial introduction
of new styles and tailoring would suggest. Cloth production had long been in
the hands of women, who spun cotton and maguey thread on hand spindles

The Aztec World: An Integrated View

287

Figure 8.2. A native warrior wielding a
Spanish sword during the war of conquest.
(From Sahagún 1950–1982: book 12, illus.
126. Courtesy University of Utah Press.
Reproduced with permission.)

and wove cloth on backstrap looms. Now Spaniards introduced textile workshops (obrajes) for spinning wool on spinning wheels and weaving wool on
large treadle looms – essentially men’s work. Alongside this new industry, the
traditional production of native and introduced fibers continued in full force.
Its tenacity is demonstrated by the incorporation of wool into hand spinning and on backstrap looms, a practice that has endured to the present day
(Figure 8.3). The addition of the wheel to the colonial Mexican technological repertoire affected not only cloth spinning, but also transport and pottery
making. At first (and in some areas for long periods), these introductions were
largely peripheral to native life, the indigenous people maintaining skills and
behaviors of traditional spinning, coiled and molded pottery, and transport by
foot and canoe alongside them.
Transport using wheels was made practical with the accompaniment of draft
animals. These and other newly arrived domesticated animals included horses,
donkeys, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, domesticated pigs, and chickens. Some were
working animals, some were eaten, and others were raised for by-products such
as wool and milk. Of all of these introduced domesticates, the chicken was most
readily adopted by the native people. Its similarity to the indigenous turkey
undoubtedly contributed to its becoming a familiar household fixture. Sheep
were also fairly popular, being called ichcatl (cotton) for their wool, which was
incorporated into the traditional textile technology (Figure 8.3). Working with
wool required the presence of sheep, and some individuals and even towns
undertook livestock raising. Indeed, in the sixteenth century, the town council
of Tlaxcallan owned a considerable flock of sheep. Recognizing their inexperience in raising these animals, they hired a Spaniard to tend to them, continuation of his contract contingent on his performance (Lockhart et al. 1986: 42, 56).
Nonetheless, some natives who owed farm labor to a Spanish encomendero might

288

Aztec Society and Culture

Figure 8.3. A modern
Nahua woman weaving
wool on a backstrap loom.
(Photograph by Frances
Berdan.)

need to work with animals in Spanish-style agriculture, thus requiring that they
acquire a new set of skills. These laborers also might be faced with cultivating
new crops, notably wheat, sugarcane, grapes, and a variety of fruits. Despite
these introductions, the native people continued to prefer their customary diet
of maize, beans, squashes, and chiles.
The adoption of new materials and technologies operated much as it
had in pre-Columbian times. Frequently the new was added to, or meshed
with, the known. This resulted in some intriguing material eclecticism. The
sixteenth-century will of don Juan Tellez of Colhuacan (in the Basin of
Mexico) revealed traditional objects such as old reed mats, gourd bowls,
baskets, and colored cloth with rabbit fur, alongside a green glass bottle, an
axe, a lock, scissors, leather shoes, and white boots. In 1581 Colhuacan resident Juana Tiacapan left behind thirty-six spindles with yarn, a round basket
full of cotton, three metates, tecomates (bowls or jars), twelve wooden beams,
two large tamale pots, and a metal-tipped digging stick (Cline and LeónPortilla 1984: 40–43, 106–111). Interesting personal collections. As in other
realms of their new lives, the native people “demonstrated an impressive
persistence of indigenous inventions, materials, and styles, but also a canny
ability to adopt new materials and objects and meld them with existing
ones to fit their changing needs” (Berdan 2006a: 18). These styles of adaptation and adoption applied equally well to more abstract realms of thinking
and believing.

Old and New Ways of Thinking, Believing, and Communicating
During the formation of their empire, the Aztecs were receptive to foreign
styles, beliefs, and deities and integrated many of these into their lives. The
Aztecs incorporated the deities of other peoples into their ever-expanding
pantheon and ritually added externally produced objects to their sacred caches.

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
This pattern of willing assimilation of new ideas and things continued into the
Spanish colonial period.
Among the things introduced by the Spaniards was a different way of writing. Alphabetic writing was more precise than the native hieroglyphics and
was quite readily adopted into Nahua literacy. Virtually every community of
any size included someone who could read and write Nahuatl in the Spanish
style, for the simple reason that the Spanish colonial government required a
notary for the town’s council (Burkhart 2011: 9–10).28 Still, literacy remained
the domain of noblemen, with few commoners and women of any class able
to read and write. Nonetheless, with this new form of literacy, at least some
Nahuatl speakers were able to “manage their own affairs with a degree of
autonomy during the colonial period.” This also facilitated the continuation
of other genres of traditional communication such as the huehuetlatolli (ancient
words), annals, histories, songs, and poems. It became a particularly useful and
common medium for legal documentation throughout the colonial period
(Karttunen 1982: 411, 415).
We saw in Chapter 7 that Aztec religion was polytheistic, assimilative, and
theatrical. It embodied concepts of duality, cosmic cycles and struggles, sacrifice, multiple afterlife destinations, and supernatural realms above and below
the terrestrial world. Some of these concepts, approaches, and ceremonies were
strikingly different from those introduced by the Spaniards; others were just
similar enough to create considerable confusion and misinterpretation when
the two religions collided.
Attitudes of assimilation versus conversion and ideas of polytheism versus
monotheism seem diametrically opposed and incompatible. Yet these apparently contradictory principles emerged as major players in the process of
religious accommodation and meshing as Cortés toppled native idols from
temple heights even before the fall of Tenochtitlan.29 With the native propensity to adopt others’ cultural features, the Christian god (Dios) was generally
accepted by the Nahua, but in their customary way, as one of many deities.
Yet the Spanish clergy intended this adoption to be accompanied by a rejection of the native deities; their proselytizing efforts did not unfold quite as
they intended. This posed no particular problem for the Nahuas. The Spanish
clergy responded by cracking down more seriously on the worship of native
deities. Not to be dissuaded from their beliefs, the Nahuas found a plethora of
Catholic saints to pair with their traditional deities, thus preserving something
of their pre-conquest religious world. The most significant of these was the
meshing of the Virgin Mary with the Aztec mother goddess Tonantzin, resulting in the Virgin of Guadalupe. In other instances, Jesus Christ became associated with Tonatiuh (the sun), Saint Anne (as Jesus’s grandmother) was linked to
Toci (Our Grandmother), and Saint John the Baptist’s association with water
was not lost on the Nahuas; to them it was natural to link him with their
ancient rain god (Burkhart 2011: 16–17). In a specific instance of syncretism,

289

290

Aztec Society and Culture
San Francisco, the present-day patron saint of the village of Tecospa (just south
of the Basin of Mexico) miraculously produces rain with “the consent of God
and the help of Aztec rain dwarfs” (Madsen 1967: 381).
These were fairly straightforward misunderstandings and logical blendings.
Other religious concepts were a rather different matter. Some of them seem
superficially similar but were in fact frustratingly dissimilar. For instance, the
Aztec opposition of order and chaos was used by the Spanish clergy to introduce concepts of good and evil.Yet these were hardly the same, since “Nahua
cosmic dualism was not cast in terms of good and evil ... the opposites [order/
chaos] complement each other.... They cannot be reduced to an opposition
between positive and negative” (Burkhart 1989: 36–37). In Aztec thought, order
came from disorder, light from darkness, life from death. The Spanish clergy’s
attempts to cast their idea of good versus evil in terms of the native concept
of order/chaos effectively “Nahuatized” this Christian concept: the Nahuas
continued to think in term of order/chaos, speaking of it as good versus evil.
The Spanish clergy thought they had succeeded in this conceptual conversion.
In effect, they had not (Burkhart 1989: 39). A similar process occurred when
Christian hell met Aztec underworld.This sort of problem has been phrased by
Lockhart (1992: 445) as “double mistaken identity” whereby “Nahua patterns
could continue indefinitely in a superficially Hispanic guise.”
Ceremonial rhythms and scheduling were central to both religions, as both
adhered to a solar calendar of religious celebrations. The flamboyant Aztec
public ceremonies, frequently punctuated by human sacrifices, disappeared
with the Empire. In their place came Christian ceremonies commemorating
events in the Christian calendar. Different times (such as Christmas, Easter,
and Corpus Christi) gained ritual importance under the new order. Formal
religious ceremonies now included the celebration of mass, colorful processions honoring saints on their special days, and theatrical plays with Christian
themes and performed in the Nahuatl language. Indigenous cultural ingredients and nuances permeated the processions and plays. The Aztecs were accustomed to religious processions; these now featured the image of a saint carried
along a designated ceremonial route. These saints were often the focal point
of an altepetl or professional group’s identity:30 in Mexico City in the 1560s, a
pochteca group “decorated a Christian cult object with feathers and displayed
a new saint’s image in a procession” (Lockhart 1992: 192). Processions could
become quite competitive (Lockhart 1992: 220, 240), and local groups retained
some of their indigenous decorative and celebratory flair. The Tlaxcallan town
council, in 1550, made a point of prohibiting its residents from dancing with
the feathers adorning a Christian processional litter and cross. They must have
been doing just that.
Christian-themed plays (performed in the Nahuatl language) also served as
symbols of community pride. With Nahua performers, they inevitably incorporated native elements of expression, thought, and behavior, often to the

The Aztec World: An Integrated View

291

Figure 8.4. Modern paper image of the
native maize god Chicomexochitl (Seven
Flower). (Photograph by and courtesy of
Alan R. Sandstrom.)

consternation of the local clergy (Burkhart 2011: 14–15). Nahua translators and
performers were notably innovative, often enough interpreting Christian ideas
and histories from their own cultural frame of reference. The performers themselves undoubtedly conveyed indigenous subtleties through intonations, gestures,
facial expressions, and spontaneous actions or speech (Burkhart 2011: 19).31
Aztec rituals persevered most successfully in local contexts such as individual households and neighborhoods.32 According to David Tavárez (2011),
litigation throughout the colonial period points to the continuation of rituals
involving concealed images and sacred bundles, accompanied by clandestine
rituals (including divination, blood sacrifice, and the offering of copal incense).
Also evident are beliefs in nahualli, or powerful shape-changing (and sometimes bloodsucking) sorcerers. Many indigenous religious specialists, variously
called “diviners, witches, enchanters, and healers,” thrived in the colonial setting (Klor de Alva 1982: 362; Tavárez 2011). The tonalamatl (ritual calendar)
also persisted undercover among some native religious practitioners, along
with its likely link with naming patterns and belief in fate (Tavárez (2011:
45, 139; Lockhart 1992: 117–130). There was considerable variation, regionally
and individually, in the covert continuation of these indigenous rituals and
beliefs (Tavárez 2011). At the same time that indigenous sorcerers and other

292

Aztec Society and Culture
religious practitioners resisted the new religion, Christianity was making spiritual inroads with other individuals. The rather unusual 1580 will of Miguel
García, a notary of Colhuacan, included a book of hours, breviaries, three rosaries, a confessional manual, and “an image of the savior on the cross” (Cline
and León-Portilla 1984: 104–105). The process of colonial religious accommodation was both complex and varied.
Most household and community ritual in pre-Spanish times focused on
curing, human fertility, and life cycle events, although some activities fed into
religious ceremonies outside the home (see Chapter 7). These local rituals
continued after the conquest and, in some areas, on to the present day.

Cultural Resilience
The Aztec Empire and state religious cult collapsed quickly, destroyed early on
by the Spanish military and spiritual conquests.33 But the culture that underlay
that powerful empire was less easily shattered. Language, material things, ways
of making a living, local and household social arrangements, altepetl organizations, and modes of thinking, believing, and expressing oneself did not disappear under the colonial regime, although much was transformed and recast in
this new universe. These retentions and adjustments especially occurred with
individual families, communities, and professional groups, and not only in outof-the-way rural areas.34 Some of this cultural resilience gained energy through
the introduction of Spanish organizations such as cofradías, or religious brotherhoods, and was reinforced by economic, social, and cultural factors such as
restricted access to certain elements of Spanish technology, retention of strong
community solidarity, Nahuatl literacy, and conceptual near misses of paired
ideas such as order–chaos / good–evil and upperworld–underworld / heaven–
hell. Nahua ways of behaving, thinking, and believing continued in force into
the new colonial world and beyond.35
Looking beyond the sixteenth century to the twenty-first, the resilience
of Aztec/Nahua cultural traditions is still clearly in evidence. For instance, in
the Nahuatl-speaking Huasteca regions of eastern Mexico (Veracruz and the
Sierra Norte de Puebla), indigenous language use, agricultural techniques and
scheduling, curing rituals, and religious pilgrimages provide traditional cultural
anchors for the daily lives of the Nahua villagers. They follow ancient traditions in producing ritual paper figures and using those images in curing ceremonies and as offerings in pilgrimages. These figures embody ancient as well
as more modern stylistic and symbolic elements. For instance, a paper image
of Chicomexochitl (Seven Flower) (Figure 8.4) carries ancient imagery and
powers associated with solar warmth, flowers, feasting, and pleasure, and today
Chicomexochitl is a primary maize spirit in these eastern Nahua regions as
“both a provider of sustenance and a nourisher of the human soul” (Sandstrom
1991: 13; see also Sandstrom and Sandstrom 1986: 77, 114; Sandstrom 1991:

The Aztec World: An Integrated View
245–247).36 This paper image embodies ancient concepts, yet it also includes
other features from the villagers’ more recent experiences, including shoes and
unspecified clothing, and the use of modern paper. The figure represents corn
in crop-fertility rituals (Alan Sandstrom, personal communication 2011). In
microcosm, this one small figure exemplifies the multitude of instances that
demonstrate how the culture derived from the past is transformed and embedded in the culture of the present.

293

G L O S S A RY

altepetl
amantecatl (pl. amanteca)
amatl (amate)
cabecera
cabildo
calendar round
calmecac
calpolli
Chichimeca
chinamitl (chinampas)
codex (pl. codices)
cofradía
cuicacalli
encomienda
Huaxtec
huehuetlatolli
huey tlatoani
macehualli (pl. macehualtin)
maguey
maye (pl. mayeque)
Mesoamerica

metlatl (metate)
Mexica

Nahuatl

fundamental political unit resembling a city-state; ruled by
a tlatoani
professional featherworker
paper made from the inner bark of fig trees
head town of a province or region during colonial times
municipal council during the colonial period
fifty-two-year calendrical cycle
priest-administered school attended by noble boys and
perhaps some commoners
district or neighborhood of a town, city, or altepetl
nomadic hunting and gathering peoples of northern desert
regions
cultivated plots of land built up in shallow freshwater
lakebeds
pictorial book
religious lay brotherhood introduced by the Spaniards
“house of song” where children learned songs, dances, and
the playing of musical instruments
grant of native labor to a privileged Spaniard
ethnic group concentrated in the northern Gulf coast of
Mexico
“ancient words,” or moral teaching of the elders
“great ruler,” or imperial ruler
native commoner; normally belonged to a calpolli
agave plant with numerous uses, for example, in beverages,
as fibers, in medicines, and for fencing
rural tenant, attached to a noble house; people in similar
situations also called tlalmaitl, or “land hands.”
culture area ranging from central Mexico into El
Salvador and Honduras; the area of pre-Hispanic high
civilizations
stone for grinding maize
popularly known as Aztecs; late-arriving Chichimeca
migrants to the Basin of Mexico; emerged as dominant
in the Triple Alliance
language of the Aztecs and many of their neighbors during
late pre-Hispanic times

295

296

Glossary
New Spain

Spanish colonial jurisdiction encompassing much of
today’s Mexico
Otomí
ethnic group important in the northern Basin of Mexico
and in pockets elsewhere in central Mexico
oztomecatl (pl. oztomeca)
professional merchants often enlisted as spies by their
rulers
patolli
game similar to pachisi
pilli (pl. pipiltin)
“son of nobles,” or any noble person
pochtecatl (pl. pochteca)
professional merchant, dealing mainly in luxury goods
pulque, octli
fermented maguey sap; a popular but restricted alcoholic beverage
quachtli
large white cotton cloths used as a form of money
quauhpilli (pl. quauhpipiltin)
“eagle noble,” or a man achieving quasi-noble status
through military exploits
teccalli
noble house, in the eastern Nahua region, encompassing the noble and his household along with associated commoner laborers
tecpan, tecpancalli
royal or lordly palace
tecuhtli (pl. tetecuhtin)
high-ranking titled noble and head of a lordly house
or palace
telpochcalli
school for commoners, with a military emphasis
temazcalli
sweatbath
Templo Mayor, Huey Teocalli
Great Temple of Tenochtitlan
teotl
deity; also used to convey the idea of divinity or an
exceptional quality
tianquiztli
native marketplace, often periodically scheduled
tlacohtli (pl. tlacohtin)
slave
tlanecuilo
regional merchant
tlatoani (pl. tlatoque)
ruler, usually of an altepetl, or city-state
tlaxilacalli
division of an altepetl; more common term than calpolli
tolteccatl (pl. toltecca)
luxury artisan
tonalamatl
“paper of days,” or astrological book recording the
days of the ritual calendar
tonalpohualli
“count of days”; the 260-day ritual calendar
Triple Alliance
political and military alliance of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco,
and Tlacopan
tzitzimime
primarily goddesses with the ability to prevent and
cure diseases; also described as celestial monsters
tzompantli
skull rack
Xihuitl
365-day solar year

N OT E S

Chapter 1. Discovering, Uncovering,
and Interpreting the Aztec World
1 The essentials of the Mesoamerican ethnohistoric record are compiled and summarized in vols. 12–15 of the Handbook
of Middle American Indians. Although the
Handbook is dated 1973–1975, the editors did a thorough and thoughtful job
of presenting the documentary record,
and these volumes remain the “go to”
sources for any initial investigation into
Mesoamerican ethnohistory. Berdan
(2009b) discusses major research themes
and the progress of ethnohistory over the
past twenty years.
2 The generally accepted number of extant
Mesoamerican pre-Columbian codices
stands at fifteen (six Mixtec historical and
genealogical codices, four Mayan ritual
and divinatory codices, and five codices
from southeast of the Basin of Mexico,
known collectively as the “Borgia
Group”). The inclusion of the Matrícula
de Tributos, which I and others believe to
also be pre-conquest, brings that number
to sixteen.
3 Part 1 of the Codex Mendoza is a history of conquests; part 2 is a tribute
tally. The tribute tally, if not copied from
the Matrícula de Tributos, is at least cognate with it (Berdan 1992; Boone 2007:
5). The Tira de la Peregrinación, or Codex
Boturini, has been thought to be preconquest, but recent studies have brought
to light Spanish styles and elements (see
Johansson 2007: 10–11).
4 It is not clear if Zorita himself used the
pictorials directly, but he certainly gained
information from them indirectly: he

obtained most of his information from
three learned Franciscan friars who
“knew aged Indians who could help
them, and the picture writings were still
sound and whole. They obtained much
accurate information from these pictures” (1963: 87).
5 When glyph and gloss disagree, I tend
to give preference to the glyph, being
the more indigenous form. Consider,
for example, the mistake made in the
Spanish gloss of the Matrícula de Tributos
(1980: folio 13r), which identified two
pieces of amber (glossed in Nahuatl as
ontetl apozonally: 2 [pieces of] amber) as
dos vasos para calentar agua [two vessels for
heating water]).
6 Book 9 of the Florentine Codex, in its
discussion of featherworkers and their
craft, contains no fewer than eighteen
distinctive native phonetic glyphs (as
single units or composites) over the
space of twenty-four separate illustrations (Sahagún 1950–1982: book 9).
This is the densest use of indigenous
phonetic glyphic writing in the entire
corpus and may reflect the eruditeness
of the scribe, slack Spanish oversight of
this section, or simply that these technical matters lent themselves well to the
inclusion of native glyphs.Whatever the
reason, the glyphs are highly instructive,
offering additional information ranging
from featherworking procedures to the
types of feathers used (Berdan n.d.).
7 While this conquistador clearly intended
to set the conquest record straight, it was
also quite fashionable at the time to write
“true” histories, and claim the last word, of
just about anything (Mancall 2007: 51).

297

298

Notes to pages 10–27
8 “Ancient words” or wise lectures of
the elders. This and other lost works
by Olmos survived in the writings of
Zorita, Las Casas, Torquemada, and
Mendieta, and perhaps also in those of
Motolonía.
9 In those days (sixteenth and seventeenth centuries) in Europe there was
scant concern for intellectual property rights, as these writers sometimes
“borrowed” freely and wholesale from
each other’s works. For elucidations of
these rather complex relationships see
especially Gibson 1975 and Gibson and
Glass 1975.
10 His travels and collections had general
medicinal objectives and derived from
a European preoccupation with finding medical cures, given the ravages of
repeated epidemics over the past few
centuries in Europe.
11 Agency theory focuses on the behavior, actions, and decisions of individual
actors, as these are played out in cultural
and institutional contexts.
12 Marketplaces were found in every citystate of any respectability and size. It is,
however, frustratingly difficult to identify
marketplaces archaeologically, since these
periodic events took place in a centrally
located open plaza that became, simply,
a centrally located open plaza on nonmarket days. The largest market in the
realm, at Tlatelolco, was daily and more
permanent. It has been tentatively identified on the ground (Carballal Staedtler
et al. 2008: 54).
13 As examples, numerous sculptures,
ranging from animals to calendrical
dates, are embedded in Tenochtitlan’s
Templo Mayor building phases. The
adjacent House of the Eagles also contains informative low-relief sculptures
(López Luján 2006). Murals have been
uncovered there, as well as in Tlatelolco
(Guilliem Arroyo 2008a, 2008b). Unless
protected from the elements, murals
are sadly fragile and few have been
recovered from Aztec-period central
Mexico.
14 And they were seen and rightfully
admired by Oveido de Valdés in Seville
and by Peter Martyr and Bartolomé

de las Casas in Valladolid (Saville 1920:
191–202).
15 Granted, deposits do become disrupted
either by nature or by human hand:
rodents disturb layers, earthquakes shift
foundations, and conquerors appropriate
finished building stones for their own
new structures.
16 Two pieces in Mexico City, three in
Vienna, and two in Stuttgart. Arguments
have been made that one item in Mexico
City (a small mosaic disk) and another in
Vienna (a feather fan) are colonial rather
than pre-conquest. I disagree.
17 “Moctezuma’s mantle,” housed in the
Musées Royaux d’Art et d’Histoire in
Brussels, has been convincingly identified as Tupinamba, not Aztec (Sergio
Purini, personal communication 2008).
A fascinating textile strip woven of
cotton, feathers, and rabbit fur in the
Cooper Hewitt Museum in New York
City has only recently been established as
Mexican, not South American as previously classified (Phipps and Commoner
2006).
18 Consider the wealth of information
(especially identification of raw materials and techniques of manufacture) that
astute researchers have gleaned from the
nine unprovenienced turquoise mosaics
in the British Museum (McEwan et al.
2006).
19 These have been identified as both
Native Americans and “others,” including Spaniards, Africans, and perhaps
mestizos from the Antilles (Martínez
Vargas 2003: 55).
20 Today’s backstrap loom is also used to
weave wool, a Spanish introduction;
the traditional wood-tipped hoe now
is made of steel. And women now frequently take their maize to the mill
for grinding rather than perform the
backbreaking work with the mano and
metate.
21 Once, long ago, when trekking deep
into the eastern Sierra, I encountered a
Nahua woman in native dress, who proceeded to ask me, in Nahuatl, for vitamins. It was an eye-opener.
22 This region encompassed the Basin of
Mexico and neighboring areas of the

Notes to pages 27–53
modern states of Hidalgo, Morelos, and
Tlaxcallan-Puebla (see Figure 3.3). Its
variety of natural environments provided
the stage on which people developed
complex civilizations based on “high
productivity, dense population, and
intensive specialization and exchange”
(Sanders et al. 1979: 4).
Chapter 2. The Aztecs as
Mesoamericans
1 I use the term “secondary state” in a general sense to refer to states that were not
primary or original in their region. The
Aztecs had several stately predecessors
and may even be considered a fourthgeneration state in the Basin of Mexico
(Marcus 1998: 73). Elizabeth Brumfiel
(1983) offers the perspective that the
Aztecs resembled primary states in their
genesis since they were not immediately
preceded by, or in direct interaction with,
a major state.
2 Umberger (1987) adds Xochicalco to
the list of cities revered by the Mexica as
“origin centers”; Xochicalco was associated with the birth of the calendar.
3 Aztec cities in the modern state of
Morelos, south of Tenochtitlan, more
closely mimic Tula’s urban layout (Smith
2008).
4 They were not alone in implementing
this strategy. Nearby Tlaxcallan, persistent enemy of the Mexica, also obtained
and revered objects from Tula (Umberger
1987: 72).
5 Sahagún is speaking of such peoples at
the time of the Spanish conquest, but it is
reasonable to envision the Mexica themselves in a similar situation a few centuries earlier.
6 The extent of these networks, the quantities of goods that passed along them, and
the nature of the exchanges themselves
are matters of some controversy. Lekson
and Peregrine (2004: 16) suggest that
most of the Mexican side of the trade
originated in western Mexico. Vargas
(2001) provides a good summary of these
controversies, agreeing with a western
Mexican source for the copper bells.

299
7 Mesoamerican-style ballcourts were
present among the Hohokam in
today’s southern Arizona, and there
has been some discussion of the presence of Mesoamerican deities in U.S.
Southwestern centers, as well as more
abstract symbolic links between the
two great culture areas (see, e.g., Taube
2001).
8 The Great Temple at Cholula (62
meters high and 400 meters on a side
at the base) and the Temple of the Sun
at Teotihuacan (69 meters high and 226
meters on a side) were substantially
larger than Tenochtitlan’s Templo Mayor
(45 meters high and an average of 82
meters on a side at its base).
9 The famed coatepantli, or serpent wall, has
recently been reanalyzed by Leonardo
López Luján and Alfredo López Austin
(2011), who conclude that it surrounded
only the Templo Mayor itself, not the
entire ceremonial precinct.
10 This conquistador goes on to add, somewhat ambiguously, that the ruler’s servants cooked more than three hundred
plates of food for the ruler and more
than a thousand for the guard (Díaz del
Castillo 1963: 225). Sahagún (1950–82,
Book 8: 39) is even more expansive, stating that the ruler’s steward set out two
thousand kinds of foods for the ruler
daily. While this was perhaps available
to the ruler initially, it appears to have
been prepared largely for the ruler’s palace visitors, associates, dependents, and
servants.
11 Most notably Tlaxcallan, Huexotzinco,
Tliliuhquitepec, and Atlixco.
Chapter 3. Living on the Land
1 The highest point in Mesoamerica is the
Pico de Orizaba, or Citlaltepetl.
2 The two most imposing peaks,
Popocatepetl (5,465 meters above sea
level) and Iztaccihuatl (5,230 meters
above sea level), lie at the southeastern
fringe of the Basin.
3 Lake Texcoco was a major terminus for
migratory waterfowl that arrived in great
multitudes during the fall and winter.

300

Notes to pages 53–70
4 The flat terrain generally ends at around
2,600 meters, and the upper limit for
agriculture lies at approximately 3,000
meters (Sanders et al. 1979: 87–88).
5 The frost season is usually considered
to extend from mid-October to midMarch (Sanders 1981: 154).
6 For a comprehensive listing of plants
in today’s ethnobotanical garden in
Cuernavaca, Morelos, see Parrilla
Alvarez 2003.
7 Sanders (2008: 68) suggests that the
population ranged from more than
100,000 to 200,000; Smith (2003b: 184;
2008: 152) offers 200,000 and 212,000;
Nichols (2004: 271) suggests 150,000–
200,000; and Matos Moctezuma (2001:
198) settles on 250,000.
8 Díaz del Castillo (1963: 144) reports separate forces of 6,000 and 40,000. He and
his commander may have been facing
the military forces from different vantage
points, resulting in different perceptions.
9 This soldier additionally offers the claim
that “most of the persons who have seen
it” arrive at this figure (Anonymous
Conqueror 1963: 178).
10 The population of Seville, for that time,
is estimated at 60,000.
11 Aztec households could consist of either
nuclear or joint families, and the sizes
of recorded households from the early
colonial period range from a low of
four members to a high of fifteen. Evans
(2005: 204) provides a useful summary.
Also see Chapter 6.
12 Smith and Heath-Smith (1994: 352,
364) also report rapid Late Postclassic
population growth in neighboring
Morelos, just to the south of the Basin of
Mexico, suggesting that the population
may have exceeded its environmental
carrying capacity.
13 The availability of such labor forces
must have been considerable. Consider
the reportedly two thousand people given to serve the daughter of
Tenochtitlan’s king Axayacatl upon her
marriage to the king of Texcoco (Hicks
1984: 152). The figure may be exaggerated, but even half that number is quite
extraordinary.

14 Sanders (2008: 81) suggests that these
urban chinampas were only small kitchen
gardens. Calnek (1972: 112, 114) estimates that urban chinampa households
could have filled only about 5–15% of
their own subsistence needs.
15 Any ambitious noble would have told
you that he absolutely needed exquisite
jewelry and personal adornments of fine
stones, metals, and feathers. From his
perspective, he did. However, here we
are concentrating on more basic, lifesupporting materials such as food, shelter, and clothing.
16 The Nahuatl term calli (house) appears
to refer most often to these individual
rooms; the term ithualli (patio) indicates
the patio or patio group, also implying
that its human occupants were a social
unit (Lockhart 1992: 59–60).
17 Other structures possibly included in
these compounds would be a granary
(cuexcomatl) and a sweatbath (temazcalli),
although these have not been verified
archaeologically for commoner households and may have been more usual
fixtures in elite houses (Burkhart 1997:
29; Lockhart 1992: 69–70).
18 Evidence for this derives primarily
from sixteenth-century documentation,
although it is certainly likely that such
patterns pertained in pre-Hispanic times
and the colonial instances reflect persisting native behaviors.
19 The three Mexica imperial rulers are
Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina, Axayacatl,
and
Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin.
Dimensions have also been offered
for the palace of Texcoco’s ruler
Nezahualcoyotl, but its unrealistic size of
843,000 square meters probably encompassed much more than just the royal
palace (see Smith 2008: 117). A more
recent estimate of 11,400 square meters
for this palace’s platform has been proposed (see Fargher et al. 2011a: 312).
20 Salvia hispanica L. The small seeds of
this plant were ground into a meal (and
sometimes mixed with maize) or were
soaked whole and used in nutritious
drinks or gruels. It appears in the Aztec
tribute lists.

Notes to pages 70–80
21 The fruits, flowers, and pads of the
prickly pear cactus were all edible.
22 In the Basin of Mexico, lacustrine
resources, including enormous flocks
of seasonal migratory birds, were abundantly available.
23 Based on measurements of fourteen
cacao cups and three pulque vessels at
the Cultural Resource Center of the
National Museum of the American
Indian, Smithsonian Institution, 2009,
by Jennifer Berdan. Two pitchers in the
same collections contained 1.2 and 2.6
pints, respectively.
24 Frying, in the European sense of the
word, was not an option, since lard or
sufficient supplies of other animal fats
were not available before the arrival of
the Spaniards.
25 Oscar Lewis (1951: 62–72) records that,
for a family of five in Tepoztlan, the
eldest daughter spent an average of five
hours daily grinding maize and making tortillas. Maize kernels were soaked
overnight in lime water, a process that
softened the kernels for grinding and
also added calcium and released other
nutrients.
26 According to Sahagún (1950–1982: book
5, 184),“[I]f they came upon dried grains
of maize lying scattered on the ground,
then they quickly gathered them up.
They said: ‘Our sustenance sufferth: it
lieth weeping. If we should not gather it
up, it would accuse us before our lord.”’
27 Like so much in Aztec society, these
clothing categories were not entirely
rigid. Some finer maguey or henequen
(enequen) fiber clothing was also highly
decorated and certainly worn by elites
(see Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. III,
folios 33r, 34r).
28 As noted in Case 1.3, although backstrap
loom weaving is a dying art in Mexico
today, my interviews with Nahua weavers
make it clear that they also acquired their
skills by age 14, having begun at age 5.
29 Today, hand spinning of wool is somewhat analogous to the dying art of
maguey spinning. Women can be seen
waiting at bus stops or walking about, all
the while spinning wool. Cotton spin-

301
ning is, by necessity, a more sedentary
activity.
30 In Cihuatecpan, nearly as many whorls
were uncovered in the noble house
alone as in eight other dwellings combined (fifty-one of sixty; Evans 1988).
31 Evans (1988: 181) uncovered twentythree small and twenty-eight large spindle whorls in structure 6, interpreted as
a noble house.
32 Maguey in central Mexico grows well
above elevations of around 1,800 meters.
Ceramic spindle whorls less than 11 centimeters in diameter are appropriate for
spinning cotton, while larger ones (up to
30 centimeters in diameter) work well
for spinning maguey fibers (M. Parsons
1975). Ethnographically, whorls made of
wood and bark are also used.
33 The concept of terracing actually yielded
quite a bit of variation on the ground,
depending on slope and other landscape
characteristics, as well as availability
of maguey and stone for construction.
Smith (2003d: 68) adds cross-channel
terraces, which built up cultivable land
across stream channels.
34 Since irrigation systems on a large scale
long predated the Aztec arrival in the
Basin of Mexico, arguments surrounding the role of irrigation in state formation are not addressed here.
35 Most canal irrigation remains today are
found along the slopes of the Basin’s
mountainous periphery (Doolittle
1990: 115).
36 Ahuitzotl insisted on this aqueduct, even
in the face of advice from the Coyoacan
ruler that it would result in a disastrous
flooding of Tenochtitlan. Ahuitzotl considered the subject ruler’s advice an
effrontery and ordered his execution
(Durán 1994: 363–365).
37 According to Sanders et al. (1979: 230), this
early-planting advantage is a particularly
important function of irrigation today.
38 I am indebted to Ken Hirth for the
observation that the clever Aztecs may
have engineered the lake levels, creating shallow water in areas where it did
not exist before. The construction of the
great dike across Lake Texcoco, com-

302

Notes to pages 80–99
plete with sluice gates, was designed at
least in part to regulate water levels.
39 Chalco paid more than any other single province, even though it contained
among the fewest tributary towns
(Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. II, 97;
vol. III, folios 40v–41r). Early colonial
chinampas in Culhuacan appear to have
emphasized maize and beans over vegetables and herbs (Lockhart 1992: 201).
40 In highland areas, the fallowed plot could
be approximately equivalent in size to
the currently cultivated plot. In tropical
forest areas, where slash-and-burn cultivation was common, the resting period
ranged from five to twenty years.
41 The conquistador Bernal Díaz del
Castillo (1963: 233) mentions public
latrines in the city of Tenochtitlan; men
in canoes sold the excrement for the
manufacture of salt and the curing of
hides. He does not mention its use as a
fertilizer.
42 Sahagún (1950–1982: book 8, 68) specifically mentions uictli, uitzoctli, and tlate­
coni (digging sticks, pointed oaken poles,
and hatchets, respectively) as present in
the Tlatelolco market. Díaz del Castillo
includes axes made of bronze and copper and tin among the wares of that
same market.
43 The Spanish colonials called these
coa, and this usage continues today in
Mexico. Current styles usually include a
steel blade.
44 Sahagún (1950–1982: book 11, 48, 49) also
mentions the common house finch and
the Moctezuma quail as domesticates.
45 Other aquatic plants described in the
ethnohistoric sources seem to have had
their greatest value as medicines (e.g.,
Hernández 1959: vol. II, 11–12, 22).
46 Hernández (1959: vol. II, 392) says this
procedure involved the throwing of
“twisted cables” into the lake, to which
the eggs adhered; the collectors removed
them from the cables and stored them in
large vessels.
47 Today dried insects are sold as birdfeed,
although the insect eggs are eaten with
relish (Parsons 2006: 167). The waterfowl are no longer available in sufficient
quantities for collection.

48 In this excavation, the lack of fish and
freshwater clams was noted. Fabiola
Guzmán and Polaco (2008: 325) suggest
that this might be due to the function
of the excavated structure or the preferences of its occupants.
Chapter 4. Craft Specialization,
Commerce, and Trade
1 While Aztec traditions attribute the
skilled crafts of fine featherworking,
metalwork, and stoneworking to the
revered Toltecs, it is clear that these luxury crafts long predated the rise of the
exalted Toltec city of Tula.
2 Research currently under way may
reveal additional sources of turquoise
deeper within Mesoamerica (see Berdan
2012).
3 Lockhart (1992: 185) stresses the conservative nature of native marketplaces in
colonial Mexico.
4 He uses the past tense here, so is presumably referring to pre-colonial times.
5 The reference is to a tzatzachiuhqui,
which Anderson et al. (1976: 138–139)
translate as “warping-frame makers.”The
backstrap loom is essentially a bundle of
sticks; it is not really clear here whether
this, or the weavings themselves, was
meant (tzaua means “to weave”).Various
Spanish introductions are also mentioned for this market, including candles,
collars, and probably Spanish garments
(Anderson et al. 1976: 138–149).
6 The Spanish version (Durán 1967: vol.
II, 477) specifies “oficios mecánicos.”
7 Sufficiently large concentrations of
manufacturing debris found at Otompan
from maguey fiber, obsidian tool, and
lapidary and figurine production led
Otis Charlton et al. (1993) to label these
workshops.
8 Torquemada (1969: vol. III, 210) speaks
of such a process with regard to colonial featherworking. See also Berdan
et al. 2009.
9 This is supported by numerous ethnohistorical references as well as the
almost ubiquitous distribution of spindle
whorls in archaeological investigations
of households (e.g., Smith et al. 2003;

Notes to pages 99–112
Smith and Heath-Smith 1994; Nichols
1994; Hicks 1994; Evans 1988).
10 According to the Codex Mendoza
(Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. III, folio
60r), a girl was expected to master spinning and weaving by age 14. She began
learning to spin at age 4. The document
does not mention at what age she began
weaving, but Nahua girls in today’s
Sierra Norte de Puebla begin learning at
age 5 (Frances Berdan, field notes 1985).
11 Adhesives were derived from several
sources, but especially orchids, beeswax,
and the resin of copal and pine trees.The
initial production of glues from orchids
in a rural household could have easily
been an auxiliary activity involving children as well as adults and using tools and
implements (such as stone knives and
grinding bowls) already available in the
household (Berdan et al. 2009). These
partially processed gums (as powders)
were sold in the market.
12 Frances Berdan, field notes 1991.
13 According to Brumfiel (1987: 107),
there did not seem to be a trend toward
increasing the intensity of utilitarian
craft production as the Late Postclassic
progressed. There was greater output
but, she suggests, because there were
more part-time producers, not because
part-timers became full-timers.
14 Hirth (2009a: 18) includes the possibility
that commoner households could produce luxury goods. This could occur as
long as the household could gain access
to the necessary raw materials, knowledge, and skills, and as long as such access
was not politically restricted to elites.
15 These city-states are discussed in
Blanton and Hodge (1996) and mapped
in Blanton (1996: fig. 3–2, p. 51). The
maguey-processing locales are centered
in the maguey-growing areas in the
northern Basin of Mexico, mat makers
and basket weavers are located close to
the lake, and woodworkers were situated
largely toward the piedmont.
16 Monzón (1949: 50–51) localizes metalworkers (including goldworkers), featherworkers, dyers, painters, mat makers,
stoneworkers, merchants, pulque makers, and curers/diviners into separate

303
neighborhoods. López Austin (1973:
65–75) reproduces Monzón’s table and
adds information on patron deities of
several specializations.
17 Damage and breakage were inevitable
and extensive in Aztec warfare. While
we have no documentation on how
repairs were made, it is possible that artisans such as these provided such services
in the marketplace.
18 He mentions how the obsidian seller
forces off blades with a staff and
crosspiece.
19 Other crafting that may have taken
place in the marketplaces included sandal making, basket making, reed mat
making, mirror stone making, smoking
tube making, and spinning and weaving.
Aside from the level of detail provided
by Sahagún, ethnographic parallels, and
the ease of working on these objects
in a market setting, there is no direct
evidence for these crafting activities in
Aztec marketplaces.
20 The artisans were paid clothing, ten
loads of squashes; ten loads of beans; two
loads each of chiles, cacao, and cotton;
and a boatload of maize prior to beginning the work.When they finished, each
received two slaves, two loads of cacao,
some pottery, salt, and a load of cloth
(Alvarado Tezozomoc 1975a: 668–669).
These were handsome wages.
21 As non-nobles, these artisans must
have been either traditionally esteemed
or excellent negotiators (see Berdan
2005: 32).
22 According to Brumfiel and associates
(1994: 117), “[C]ross cultural studies of
status markers lead us to believe that
such artifacts are characterized by difficult production processes that limit their
availability to those who control skilled
specialists.”
23 Small (cotton) spindle whorls have been
found broadly in archaeological contexts
from tierra caliente to tierra fria.
24 For instance, Acazacatlan, on the brink
between highland and lowland in the
eastern Sierra, was well known as a cotton market (Berdan et al. 2003b: 99).
25 A particularly interesting example comes from the southern part of

304

Notes to pages 112–136
the Empire and beyond its boundaries. Teotitlan del Camino (outside the
imperial thrall) manufactured women’s
cotton tunics (huipilli) and sold them
to merchants who transported them
to Guatemala, Chiapa, Suchitepeques
(again outside the Empire) and
Xoconochco (an imperial province).
At these distant places, the merchants
traded the tunics for cacao (and there
the story ends, so we do not know
where the cacao went). For their part,
the people of Teotitlan del Camino did
not grow their own cotton for their
weaving enterprises; rather, the raw
material was obtained from the distant
Tehuantepec region, reportedly 192
kilometers away on a bad road (PNE
1905–1906: vol. IV: 107).
26 While land generally appears to have
been politically entailed, there are tantalizing tidbits to the contrary. Hicks
(1986: 48–50) summarizes documented
instances of the possibility of selling
land. While selling land may have been
allowed, it was probably a relatively rare
occurrence.
27 Marketplaces are frustratingly difficult
to identify archaeologically; they usually took place, periodically, in plazas
that served other community functions.
However, some inroads have been made
by chemical analyses in the Mayan area
(Dahlin et al. 2007). Hirth’s (1998) “distributional approach” provides the possibility of identifying marketing activities
through analyses of the composition of
household goods.
28 Translated by Smith (1979: 111).
29 The institution of “markets on wheels” in
modern Mexico City serves similar needs:
foods and utilitarian objects are sold in
different parts of the city on a weekly
rotation. In short, the market comes to its
consumers one day each week, mirroring
pre-Columbian market patterns.
30 The venue for selling slaves was reportedly moved by political order from
Cuauhtitlan to Azcapotzalco (see
Blanton 1996: 75).
31 Given the tenacity of the indigenous market system under Spanish colonial rule, it
is highly probable that these schedules

were carried over from Aztec times (see
Gibson 1964: 352–353, 356–357).
32 This assessment is based on the distribution of pottery, a general-use
commodity.
33 Many more such marketplaces can
be named that were favorably located
on major transport arteries. Especially
important were Miahuatlan, Coyolapan,
Tlachquiauhco, and Coayxtlahuacan
in the southern and western parts of
the Empire and Tepeacac, Acazacatlan,
and Tochtepec to the east. See maps in
Berdan et al. 1996.
34 Díaz del Castillo (1963: 233) mentions
three judges, while Cortés (1928: 89),
enjoying the same market tour, enumerates ten to twelve. Both also observed
additional supervisors or inspectors who
wandered about the marketplace ensuring order.
35 Barter has been historically common in
Mexican periodic marketplaces; while it
still occurs today, money has become the
usual medium of exchange.
36 See Anonymous Conqueror 1971:
380–381; Las Casas 1967: vol. I, 309, 361,
364, 368; Motolinía 1971: 216–217, 374;
Oviedo y Valdés 1851–1855: vol. III, 536;
Torquemada 1969: vol. II: 558, 560; ENE
1939–1942: vol. I: 86; PNE 1905–1906:
vol. 6: 164, 321; AGI, Patronato 184, no. 2.
37 This root was popular for cleaning
clothes.
38 Only merchants from Tenochtitlan and
Tlatelolco carried the ruler’s goods,
with merchants from the other three
city-states traveling as their companions.
These companions were all from Tepanec
territory, and while it goes unrecorded,
they may have served in a similar capacity as agents of the Tlacopan ruler.
39 These are recorded from the city-states
of Huexotla, Coatlinchan, Chalco,
Huitzilopochco, Mixcoac, Xochimilco,
and Otompan (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 9, 48–49).
Chapter 5. City-States and Imperial
Rule
1 Hodge (1994: 59) suggests that “most
rural communities were within a few

Notes to pages 136–150
hours walking distance from their political centers.”
2 Smith (2008: 90) estimates that city-states
in the Basin of Mexico typically covered an area of 70–100 square kilometers,
while those in Morelos usually spanned
50–80 square kilometers. Borders and
boundaries were important to the Aztecs
(see Hodge 1997: 212).
3 These were the Tepaneca (with primary
city-states of Azcapotzalco, Tlacopan, and
Coyoacan), Mexica (of Tenochtitlan),
Acolhua (of Texcoco and neighboring
eastern city-states), Culhua, Xochimilca,
Mixquica, Cuitlahuaca, and Chalca
(Hodge 1996: 20; Gibson 1964).
4 Chalco was reportedly defeated by the
allied armies in 1456, Amecamecan in
1465 (Berdan et al. 1996: 234).
5 Tlacopan had remained relatively neutral during the war with Azcapotzalco.
It was undoubtedly in the best interest
of Tenochtitlan and Texcoco to include
a Tepaneca city in their military alliance,
given the large territories and great number of important cities claiming Tepaneca
heritage.
6 Hodge (1996: 32) observes that these
composite city-states were all located in
the Tenochca, Tepaneca, Cuitlahuaca, and
Chalca zones.
7 The sources are frustratingly inconsistent on this matter. At the very least, she
seems to have been an essential genealogical link in maintaining the line of
legitimate succession (Gillespie 1989:
98–106).
8 For example, Itzcoatl led forces against
Azcapotzalco, Axayacatl
personally
led campaigns against the Tarascans
and Matlatzincas, Ahuitzotl fought in
Tehuantepec and against the Huaxteca,
and the second Motecuhzoma campaigned
against
Tototepec
and
Quetzaltepec. That said, they also stayed
home during some wars (Durán 1994:
79–80, 265–270, 278–282, 324, 351,
420–424).
9 Autosacrifice typically involved piercing fleshy parts of the body with a sharp
object such as a maguey spine.
10 Sahagún (1950–1982: book 8, 39) speaks
of 2,000 kinds of food for the ruler daily,

305
and Díaz del Castillo (1963: 226–227)
mentions that beyond Motecuhzoma’s
meal itself, more than 1,000 plates of
food, more than 2,000 jugs of frothy
chocolate, and great quantities of fruit
were provided for the ruler’s guard and
household servants. Someone had to
acquire, prepare, and serve all that. Also
see Chapter 3 for a sense of the ruler’s
lifestyle.
11 These are variously listed as tlillancanqui,
ezhuahualcatl, cuauhnochtli, huitznahua­
tlailotlac, pochtecatlailotlac, and tiçocihuacatl
(Davies 1987: 107).
12 This concern is voiced repeatedly in
Chimalpahin (Anderson and Schroeder
1997: 105, 113, 117) and Durán (1994:
45, 48).
13 High-ranking nobles and courageous
warriors were often allocated such lands
within the Basin of Mexico, apparently
to avert freewheeling looting and the
collection of booty. Such was the overt
case in the conquest of Xochimilco by
the Mexica, where lands were distributed to distinguished warriors “since
they were not allowed to pillage the
conquered city” (Durán 1994: 112). In
more distant conquests, for example
that of Tehuantepec, looting and pillaging were almost uncontrolled, since
“only this interest in looting had made
them leave their homes, their lands, their
wives and children” (Durán 1994: 353).
14 This was clever. Tepeacac bordered
enemy Tlaxcallan, Huexotzinco, and
Cholula, and Aztec-friendly residence
would enhance the Aztec military
and political position along this tense
border. Also, the ruler of conquered
Tepeacac was required to house and
support an Aztec governor and to hold
a “great marketplace” (Durán 1994:
159) – both of these requirements were
less than subtle means of exerting Aztec
control.
15 Over in Texcoco, that ruler required
lords from several distant conquered
city-states to serve in his palace on a
rotating basis.
16 This is recorded in detail forTenochtitlan’s
temple of Huitzilopochtli. It is not clear
how general this practice was.

306

Notes to pages 150–170
17 Despite its close association with rulers, this diadem also appears on judges
as well (see Berdan and Anawalt 1992:
vol. 3, folio 68r). No Mexica rulers
prior to the formation of the Empire
wore this diadem, and no Mexica ruler
after Cuauhtemoc – under Spanish
rule – wore this potent symbol of office
(Sahagún 1993: folios 51v, 52r).
18 Smith et al. (2003) argue convincingly
that the fine serving vessels used in such
feasts were commodities obtained in
markets.
19 Mentioned in Sahagún (1950–1982:
book 10, 191). This may not have been
an isolated case (Davies 1987: 6).
20 In contrast, Chase et al. (2009) estimate
Teotihuacan’s thrall at approximately
20,500 square kilometers (7,915 square
miles) and that of Tula at some 8,000
square kilometers (3,089 square miles).
21 Matos Moctezuma’s estimates are based
on 86 offerings, López Luján’s on 118.
At this writing, 162 ritual deposits have
been unearthed in the sacred precinct by
the Proyecto Templo Mayor since 1978.
No actual count of the artifacts has been
made; the 80% estimate is an approximation and refers to “the majority”
(Leonardo López Luján, personal communication 2010). López Luján (2005:
104) observes that most manufactured
goods found in the offerings derived
from the modern states of Guerrero,
Oaxaca, Puebla, and Veracruz.
22 While statistics on battlefield casualties are notoriously difficult to find and
interpret, there are some historically
recorded figures. Among the most dramatic are 21,900 Aztec (and allies) dead
vs. an unspecified Tarascan loss; 10,000
Aztec (and allied) dead vs. an unspecified Huexotzinco loss; 8,200 Aztec
dead vs. “many” Cholulans dead; 12,000
Matlatzincas captured vs. 1,000 Aztec
dead (see Hassig 1988: 301).
23 It did not take much to raise the ire of a
ruler. Both Ahuitzotl and Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin ordered vassal rulers killed
when neither provided an answer
desired by the preeminent rulers (see
Durán 1994: 363–365; Bierhorst 1992:
124–125).

24 Enemies were alertly lurking about,
seeking to weaken the Empire. Twice
the Tlaxcallans incited the rulers of
Cuetlaxtlan province to rebel against
their Aztec overlords, promising to support them in their rebellion. Twice the
Tlaxcallans abandoned them (Berdan
and Anawalt 1992: vol. 2, 122–123).
25 Quilted cotton armor was used throughout Mesoamerica. It was lightweight,
about one and a half to two fingers
thick (Hassig 1988: 88), and apparently
quite serviceable and a strong protection
against projectiles. It was “so thick that
an arrow or dart could not penetrate it”
(Durán 1994: 205–206).
26 Enterprising people from Misantla in
the Gulf coastal region made cotton
armor and sold it at battlefields (Relación
de Misantla 1962: 17).
27 Coyolapan in the Mixteca.
28 One tributary province, Tepeacac, and
a number of strategic provinces were
required to deliver war captives from
enemy polities.
29 The 80-day periods probably refer to
actual periods of 80–100–80–100 days.
30 In the Codex Mendoza. The Matrícula de
Tributos clothing payment periods are
every 80 days, making a much larger
total than that indicated in the Codex
Mendoza (Berdan 1976).
31 The Matrícula lists 293,760 pieces of
clothing, while the Mendoza totals
147,200.The discrepancy is due largely to
differences in tribute collection periods.
32 Tenochtitlan’s preeminence in these
matters is evident from the tribute’s
being collected there first and then, if
relevant, distributed to the two other
allies.
33 The chronicler states that all of this came
from 150 leagues around (approximately
450 miles).
34 Adding the important point that the
imposition of tributes was but one factor involved in these changes.
35 This was a very real threat, as disastrous
droughts, floods, and pestilence leading
to famines were historically known and
feared (see Chapter 3 and Case 3.2).
36 Those goods that we label luxuries
were indeed considered essential by

Notes to pages 170–203
the nobility; maintenance of social status through extravagant display was a
priority.
37 The Tenochtitlan rulers were especially
active in installing these relatives in the
western part of the Basin, decimating
Tepanec dynasties (Hodge 1996: 36).
38 These documents are at least cognate; they are almost identical in town
and tribute listings. For an in-depth
comparison of these documents, see
Berdan 1976.
39 Documents deriving from nonimperial
centers, such as Chimalpahin’s Chalco
account and the Anales de Cuauhtitlan,
do not use the term “province,” preferring altepetl names or the names of
peoples (e.g., Tlapaneca).
40 Control of information and affirmation
are also listed by Chance and Stark (2007:
208), but the authors see little documentary or archaeological evidence for
these strategies among Aztec subjects. I
agree and have not included them in this
discussion.
Chapter 6. Living as an Aztec: Social
Status and Daily Life
1 Historical codices depict early nobles
quite differently from commoners
(e.g., in clothing, adornments, seats, and
dwellings). However, it is not clear if
these depictions are projections from
later times when the codices were
produced.
2 In the Puebla-Tlaxcallan region, these
were common and were called teccalli.
In the Basin of Mexico and neighboring areas, they were called tecpan or
tecpancalli.
3 Technically, pipiltin referred to nobles of
whatever rank.
4 The “good” and “bad” aspects are, at least
in part, a product of Sahagún’s questioning format.
5 Sahagún’s informants were primarily
aged nobles. This account, therefore,
may be tinged by the nobles’ view of
commoners’ lifestyles.
6 This community was ultimately included
in Miahuatlan strategic province. See
Figure 5.5.

307
7 Colonial Spanish writers considered
these persons comparable to caballeros
pardos (knights of commoner origin)
in the sixteenth-century Spanish world
(Carrasco 1971: 354).
8 The practice of inherited slavery (ancient
servitude: heuhuetlatlacolli) was reportedly abolished in 1505 by Nezahualpilli
of Texcoco, whose lead was followed by Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin
of Tenochtitlan (see Offner 1983: 85,
308–309).
9 A speaker’s older brothers and sisters
carried different terms, although younger siblings were not so distinguished.
10 In another uncomplimentary version of
Itzcoatl’s birth, he is the son of a greens
seller from Azcapotzalco (Carrasco 1984:
60). In either case, he overcame his
humble beginnings with his personal
achievements.
11 Schroeder (1992: 65) observes that the
few recorded cases of commoner men
marrying noblewomen occurred during
the early stages in an altepetl’s development or in times of crisis.
12 Women’s names of Tiacapan (Eldest),
Tlaco (Middle), Teiuc (Younger), Xoco
(Youngest), and Mocel (Only) are common to the point of confusion in the
early colonial Colhuacan wills (Cline
and León-Portilla 1984).Their frequency
suggests a pre-conquest practice.
13 For both boys and girls, this sequence of
ages from 4 to 14 is interrupted to illustrate punishments for boys aged 8–12
and girls aged 8–11. We assume learning of household tasks continued during
these difficult years.
14 Young boys in featherworking households were responsible for making glue,
while girls were expected to develop a
keen eye for feather colors.
15 Zorita (1963: 135) and Torquemada
(1969: vol. 2, 222) mention boys entering the calmecac as young as age 5. The
Codex Mendoza (Berdan and Anawalt
1992: vol. III, folio 61r) gives age 15, and
Sahagún (1950–1982: book 8, 71) mentions age 10, 12, or 13. There are suggestions that some commoner boys
may have been dedicated to calmecac
schooling.

308

Notes to pages 203–223
16 Since these schools were attached to
temples, and different temples were dedicated to different deities, the curricula
varied. For instance, the calmecac associated with Tezcatlipoca emphasized training for the priesthood, while the calmecac
attached to Camaxtli’s temple focused
on developing skilled hunters.
17 Children were particularly involved in
ceremonies performed during the dry
season.
18 See Berdan (2005: 97–99) for an extended
description of these procedures and
events.
19 While spinning and weaving appear
to have been exclusively female tasks,
even this is unclear: burials in Postclassic
Cholula included male retainers interred
with spindle whorls (Brumfiel 1991: 247;
McCafferty 2001).
20 There remain some questions about
female rulers.Were they formally installed
as rulers, did they sit on thrones and wear
turquoise diadems or other symbols of
rulership, and what was the nature of
their titles? (Schroeder 1992: 49).
21 This is probably an overstatement: joint
families provided something of a buffer
against this periodic household gender
imbalance.
22 According to López Austin (1988: vol. 1,
236) these were not exclusive to humans.
This same author (1988) provides an
excellent and thorough discussion of
these concepts.
23 Warriors awarded this afterlife accompanied the sun from its rising to its zenith.
After four years they returned to earth as
precious birds (including hummingbirds)
and butterflies (Sahagún 1950–1982:
book 3, 49). Women dying in childbirth
traveled with the sun from its zenith to
its setting in the west.
24 This is phrased in terms of a male, and it
is not clear if the same rites pertained to
a female noble.
25 The dog helped the deceased overcome
difficult obstacles on the journey to
Mictlan. A highly decorated canine discovered in offering 125 may have served
such a function.
26 Durán (1994: 382–386) discusses the ruler
Ahuitzotl’s funeral in detail, describing

the extravagant possessions that accompanied this ruler to the afterworld.
27 It is also clear that these burials were not
used to consecrate the temple, as they
were deposited below already completed
floors.
28 Still, the manner of death was of prime
importance: the effigy of a merchant
who died a glorious death in distant
lands was buried in the calpolli temple,
while a merchant who died an ordinary
death was cremated and buried at home
(for an excellent summary of social status
differences in burial customs see Chávez
Balderas 2007: 86–97).
29 In their nefarious acts, these sorcerers
would steal the forearm of a woman
who had died in childbirth and use it to
stupefy residents and rob them at will.
30 A tlacatecolotl (man owl) could transform
himself into a wild beast and wreak
havoc, including murder.
Chapter 7. Religion, Science, and the
Arts
1 Calendars are devised by humans and
can be manipulated to serve specific
agendas. One such instance occurred
at the end of a fifty-two-year cycle in
the year One Rabbit (1506), which was
delayed until the year Two Reed (1507)
by Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin in order
to avoid unpleasant associations with
the prior One Rabbit year (1454), a year
of intense famine in central Mexico, or
perhaps to exercise his imperial powers
(see Diel 2008: 37). As a side note, the
Codex Mendoza shows Two Reed as the
New Fire date from the 1300s. This may
be a case of retrospective history.
2 This was the thirteenth and highest level
of the heavens.
3 This story, of course, has great significance for Aztec history, since
Quetzalcoatl’s proclamation to return in
the year Ce Acatl (One Reed) coincided
with the fateful year 1519.
4 This ritual took place at a temple called
Huixachtecatl. The temple and hill are
on the outskirts of today’s Mexico City.
5 This star grouping was known to the
Aztecs as Tianquiztli, or “Marketplace.”

Notes to pages 224–253
6 This god, as Camaxtli, was patron deity
of the powerful Tlaxcallans.
7 Tezcatlipoca needed to make this transformation because Mixcoatl was associated with flint and therefore with fire.
8 Caves are ambivalent in Aztec thought,
representing both fertility and foreboding (as places of emergence and
entrances to the underworld) (Miller
and Taube 1993: 56–57). It should be
remembered, also, that the Mexica
and other Chichimecs traditionally emerged from Chicomoztoc, the
“Seven Caves.”
9 The south was associated with the
Tochtli (Rabbit) year sign, bringing
forth memories of terrible famine (see
Chapter 3). These qualities are summarized in Berdan 2005: 131.
10 While Tenochtitlan is unique in many
ways, the Mexica considered the central
temple of any of their conquests as the
city’s heart and soul (my methaphor).
The graphic symbol of conquest was a
burning temple.
11 D. Carrasco (1999: 42–43) also reiterates
Johanna Broda’s (1978) suggestions that
the spatial structure of imperial tribute
collection, Motecuhzoma’s palace, and
that same ruler’s governmental organization (with Motecuhzoma at the apex,
counseled by four judges) reflected the
center/quadripartite arrangement of the
supernatural world.
12 Smith (in press a) states that, rather than
being anthropomorphic, deities “were
viewed as supernatural spirits or forces
that took material form when adorned
with key elements of their costume.”
Alfredo López Austin (2001: 270) and
Davíd Carrasco (2001: 105) consider
them anthropomorphic.
13 Some individuals dedicated themselves
to a temple for one year only, vowing
their service in exchange for future
health and happiness. Men swept and
guarded the temple, and women cooked
food for the godly idol (and the priests)
(Kubler and Gibson 1951: 29).
14 Fasting was variably defined, sometimes
limiting eating to one meal a day, sometimes allowing food but without chiles
and salt. Penitents were also expected

309
to refrain from bathing and sexual
activities.
15 The purpose of this ceremony, they
said, was to allow the hardworking and
much-tormented maize to rest (Sahagún
1950–1982: book 2, 178).
16 Dancers impersonated butterflies, hummingbirds, beetles, owls, and even “the
poor” and “sleep.”
17 The earliest evidence for Mesoamerican
human sacrifice comes from the
Tehuacan Valley and dates from 6000 to
4800 BC; the earliest evidence for cannibalism derives from the Basin of Mexico
from 700 to 500 BC (López Austin and
López Luján 2010).
18 Among Northwest coast Native
Americans, potlatches were expensive
and extravagant feasts hosted by individuals to achieve or verify a social position
and/or title.
19 While the name suggests an owl, they
could also transform themselves into
other creatures such as dogs, turkeys, or
weasels.
20 In general, the Aztec lifestyle generated
relatively little waste. Organic wastes
were recycled in gardens and fields,
excrement was collected for fertilizer,
and urine was used as a mordant in dyeing cloth (Ortiz de Montellano 1990).
The greatest waste accumulation would
have occurred at the end of each fiftytwo-year cycle, as broken household
goods were piled up in dumps.
21 Chevalier and Sánchez Bain (2003)
argue that the hot–cold dichotomy was a
native concept rather than introduced by
the Spaniards, and they provide a good
summary and critique of the indigenous
vs. diffusionist positions.
22 For instance, epazote could be used as a
remedy for parasites, stomach inflammation, menstrual problems, and fear;
prickly pear fruits were effective as aids
in childbirth and in treating a variety of
ailments, including digestive difficulties
and heart problems (Bye and Linares
1999: 8).
23 Don’t try this at home; Parrilla Alvarez
(2003: 243) describes the seeds as toxic.
24 These are also called narrative pictography, depictions, and the iconic mode

310

Notes to pages 253–267
(see Boone 2000a: 33).They all mean the
same thing. Boone (2011: 198) describes
Postclassic Mexican pictography as consisting of a combination of “figurally
iconic images” that typically have no
direct relationship with spoken language
and phonetic signs.
25 To which must be added regional variations; see Robertson 1994.
26 They also produced epic poetry, recounting their great mythic episodes.
27 In one documented case, Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin employed fourteen stoneworkers to carve a statue of himself; in another, a team effort was
required to sculpt a massive stone for
Huitzilopochtli’s temple (Alvarado
Tezozomoc 1975a: 662).
Chapter 8. The Aztec World: An
Integrated View
1 This backfired for the Aztecs at the
famous battle against the Spaniards at
Otompan (today’s Otumba), where
Cortés focused his attack on just such an
ostentatious leader, captured his device,
sent the native troops into disarray, and
won the day.
2 Olko (2005: 262) suggests that these
devices existed earlier in central Mexico.
Indeed, the quetzalpatzactli device is
illustrated in Durán in battles during
the reign of the earlier Axayacatl (1994:
plates 21–23).
3 These included the “ancient” device
tozcocoli cuaxolotl, along with ones called
ozelotzimitl, xoxouhqui cuextecatl, and
iztac huixtecatl (Alvarado Tezozomoc
1975a: 549).
4 Appropriately, the butterfly insignia was
associated with Xochiquetzal and also
with Chantico, the Xochimilco fire
goddess (Seler 1992: 35).
5 Olko (2005: 468) suggests that the granting of these devices by the imperial ruler
“to provincial elites was a kind of permission for them to use imperial status
symbols … assuring their cooperation
and promoting imperial conventions
and values in the conquered provinces.”
6 Consider the story of a Chichimec
ruler of the city-state of Cuauhtitlan:

“As a reward for his loyalty, the emperor
Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin offered
this lord the costume and insignia of
a Mexica warrior: the lord refused,
instead accepting gifts appropriate to a
Chichimec” (Berdan 2008: 122; Hodge
1984: 60). While the Cuauhtitlan ruler
may have been making an ethnic statement, he also may have been stating
unequivocally that he refused to accept
the dominant posture of the Mexica
ruler as symbolized by his offer.
7 The “device with cups” (quetzalcomitl)
was worn on the warrior’s back. This
style does not appear in the imperial tribute tallies, but two back devices whose
frames were constructed like earthenware vessels do appear in the Primeros
Memoriales (Sahagún 1997: 267, 272).
8 In a similar vein, certain fancy capes (or
featherwork) were called “shadow of the
kings” since the ruler alone retained the
right to grant permission to wear these
cloaks; its name suggests an intimate connection with the ruler, or perhaps the
rulership (Durán 1994: 167; 1971: 200).
9 While it may be a product of the document itself, it is interesting that in the
Codex Telleriano­Remensis (Quiñones
Keber 1995), Aztec warriors do not
consistently wear fancy headgear and
back devices until the 1473 conquest of
Tlatelolco and thereafter. Tlatelolco was
a renowned pochteca and amanteca (featherworker) center.Tenochtitlan control of
Tlatelolco implies greater control over
the efforts of these specialists.
10 The Codex Magliabechiano (Boone 1983:
folio 68) depicts the burial of a merchant. This wealthy individual is accompanied by his precious wares, which do
not include any warrior costumes or
shields.
11 Sahagún (1950–1982: book 9, 91–92)
states that private featherworkers “specialized exclusively in devices which
they made [and] sold: perhaps shields,
or shirts [ehuatl] of yellow parrot feathers – whatsoever they made.” This suggests that such devices were available
in the marketplace, although the presence of capture-specific warrior regalia
is not specifically mentioned. However,

Notes to pages 267–292
this may simply mean that they went
unrecorded.
12 In addition, priest-warriors capturing
their fourth enemy on the battlefield
received this style of warrior costume
in reward, although of a different
design (Berdan and Anawalt 1992: vol. 3,
folio 65r).
13 The most common media were codices,
polychrome pottery, and painted murals.
These were characteristically part of
elite culture.
14 Some goods, such as salt and cacao, not
qualifying as staple foodstuffs or as precious luxuries, have been given their
own category of “bulk luxuries” (Smith
and Berdan 2003c).
15 See Chapter 1 for the most important
primary sources. A particularly thorough
and thoughtful description and discussion of the Spanish conquest of the
Aztecs can be found in Thomas 1993.
16 Spanish weaponry and strategies contributed to their success in many ways:
much beyond steel swords, firearms, and
horses, the Spaniards employed decisive
divide-and-conquer strategies and perhaps the most ignominious and unsuspected weapon of all, epidemic diseases.
17 See, e.g., Códice Osuna (1947), Códice
Sierra (León 1982), and Pintura de los
tributos de los Yndios naturales del pueblo de
Cuyuacan (Batalla Rosado 2002).
18 For example, this is evident in the Sierra
Norte de Puebla, where native individuals’ villages are readily identified by dialect variations and distinctive styles of
clothing (especially blouses and belts).
19 These elections occurred every one to
two years. Voters typically consisted of
upper-class males (Haskett 1991: 30; but
see Megged 1991).
20 The impact on individual communities varied considerably: Xochimilco
reportedly dropped from a population
of 30,000 to 6,000–7,000, and Otompan
(Otumba) lost more than half of its native
population in the 1576–1581 epidemic
(Gibson 1964: 138; Gerhard 1993: 208).
21 Cuetlaxtlan near the Gulf coast plummeted from an estimated 40,000 families
at the time of contact to an estimated
800–900 household heads (tributaries)

311
in 1560, to a minuscule 24 household
heads in 1569 (Gerhard 1993: 342).
22 It is worth noting that this remarkable
woman married, in succession, three con­
quistadores (Thomas 1993: 594).
23 It is interesting that today’s traje, men’s
indigenous costume, consists of Spanishintroduced shirts and trousers.
24 In Chiapa, on the southern fringes of
the old Aztec Empire, Spaniards dangled
access to prized Spanish goods and community offices as incentives to adopt
Spanish language and culture (Megged
1991: 499).
25 Apparently it had been customary for
commoners to drink only “watery
chocolate,” befitting their status in the
pre-Columbian setting.
26 The concept of the wheel was known.
The application of wheels in construction, for instance as pulleys, is
unattested.
27 When the agua miel (honey water) of the
maguey plant is fermented, it yields octli
or pulque. When it is distilled, tequila is
the result.
28 Karttunen (1982: 400) observes that the
position of local notary was sometimes
held by members of the same family, for
generations.
29 Especially useful and thoughtful studies
of this process of religious syncretism
can be found in Madsen 1967; Klor de
Alva 1982; Tavárez 2011; Lockhart 1992;
and Burkhart 1989, 2011.
30 Spanish-introduced cofradías (religious
brotherhoods) took on many of these
organized religious activities beginning
shortly after the conquest.
31 This is speculation, as the surviving
scripts provide us no direct information on this. However, it is difficult to
imagine a performer without expressive
qualities, ones derived from his own, in
this case Nahua, experience.
32 The persistence of domestic rituals in
the face of the disappearance of the
state religion tempts one to look to a
revival of the great tradition / little tradition model (see McAnany 2002 and
Chapter 7).
33 The term “spiritual conquest” was used
by Robert Ricard (1966, originally in

312

Notes to pages 292–293
French in 1933) to emphasize the success of early Christian proselytizing in
sixteenth-century New Spain. Klor
de Alva (1982) has argued against this
emphasis on success, and recent scholarship supports his position.
34 It is usually thought that these retentions
were rural phenomena, possible because
of their distance from the urban centers of
Spanish control. However, cultural retentions were also considerable in sixteenthcentury Mexico City (e.g., Kellogg 1995,
1997). Today, a traditional curing ritual
can be seen on the streets of Mexico City
as well as in a rural Nahua village.

35 See, e.g., Lockhart 1992; Kellogg 1995;
Wood 2003; Schroeder et al. 1997;
Burkhart 1989; Madsen 1967; Tavárez
2011; Berdan 1993, 2006a.
36 This god was closely associated with
other maize and pleasure deities, especially Xochipilli (Nicholson 1971:
table 3). He was also the spiritual protector of seamstresses and painters, who
once each year fasted and offered him
quail and incense in order to ensure and
enhance their skills (Sahagún 1950–82:
book 2, 35–36).

REFERENCES

Acosta, José de. 2002. Natural and Moral
History of the Indies (Jane E. Mangan,
ed.). Durham, NC: Duke University
Press. (Originally appeared 1590.)
Acosta-Saignes, Miguel. 1945. “Los
Pochteca.” Acta Antropológica 1, no. 1.
Acuña, René. 1982–1988. Relaciones geográficas del siglo XVI. 10 vols. Mexico City:
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
Mexico, Instituto de Investigaciones
Antropológicas. (Originally written
1579–1585.)
AGI. Archivo General de las Indias. Seville.
Aguilar, Fray Francisco de. 1963. “The
Chronicle of Fray Francisco de
Aguilar,” in The Conquistadors (Patricia
de Fuentes, ed. and trans.): 134–164.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press.
(Originally written sixteenth century.)
Alva Ixtlilxochitl, Fernando de. 1965.
Obras históricas (Alfredo Chavero, ed.).
2 vols. Mexico City: Editorial Nacional.
(Originally written ca. 1600–1640.)
Alvarado Tezozomoc, Fernando. 1975a.
Crónica mexicana (Manuel Orozco y
Berra, commentary). Mexico City:
Editorial Porrúa. (Originally written ca.
1598 or early 1600s.)
Alvarado Tezozomoc, Fernando. 1975b.
Crónica mexicayotl (Adrián León, trans.).
Mexico City: Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de Mexico, Instituto de
Investigaciones Históricas. (Originally
written early 1600s.)
Anawalt, Patricia. 1981. Indian Clothing
Before Cortés: Mesoamerican Costumes
from the Codices. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Anderson, Arthur J. O. 1997. “Aztec
Wives,” in Indian Women of Early Mexico

(Susan Schroeder, Stephanie Wood, and
Robert Haskett, eds.): 55–85. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Anderson,Arthur J. O., Berdan, Frances, and
Lockhart, James. 1976. Beyond the Codices.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Anderson, Arthur J. O., and Schroeder,
Susan. 1997. Codex Chimalpahin, vol. 1.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press.
Anonymous Conqueror. 1963. “The
Chronicle of theAnonymous Conqueror,”
in The Conquistadors (Patricia de Fuentes,
ed. and trans.): 165–181. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press (Originally
written sixteenth century.)
Anonymous Conqueror. 1971.“Relación de
algunas cosas de la Nueva España, y de la
gran ciudad de Temestitán México; escrita
por un compañero de Hernán Cortés,” in
Colección de documentos para la historia de
México I (Joaquín García Icazbalceta, ed.):
368–398. Mexico City: Editorial Porrúa.
(Originally published 1556.)
Armillas, Pedro. 1971.“Gardens in Swamps.”
Science 174: 653–661.
Aveni, Anthony F. 2001. Skywatchers of
Ancient Mexico. 2d ed. Austin: University
of Texas Press.
Ávila López, Raúl. 1992. “Arqueología de
chinampas de Iztapalapa,” in Chinampas
Prehispánicas (Carlos Javier González,
ed.): 81–154. Mexico City: Instituto
Nacional de Antropología e Historia.
Ávila López, Raúl. 2006. Mexicaltzingo:
Arqueología de un reino culhua-mexica.
2 vols. Mexico City: Instituto Nacional
de Antropología e Historia.
Ayerza, Jr., Ricardo, and Coates, Wayne.
2005. Chia. Tucson: University of
Arizona Press.

313

314

References
Baird, Ellen T. 1993. The Drawings of
Sahagún’s Primeros Memoriales: Structure
and Style. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Ball, Hugh G., and Brockington, Donald
L. 1978. “Trade and Travel in Prehispanic
Oaxaca,” in Mesoamerican Communication
Routes and Cultural Contacts (Thomas
A. Lee, Jr., and Carlos Navarrete,
eds.): 107–114. Provo, UT: New World
Archaeological Foundation.
Barber, Russell J., and Berdan, Frances F.
1998. The Emperor’s Mirror: Understanding
Cultures through Primary Sources. Tucson:
University of Arizona Press.
Barlow, Robert. 1949. The Extent of the
Empire of the Culhua Mexica. IberoAmericana, vol. 28. Berkeley: University
of California Press.
Batalla Rosado, Juan José. 2002. Códice
Tributos de Coyoacán. Madrid: Brokarte.
Batalla Rosado, Juan José. 2007. “The
Scribes Who Painted the Matrícula de
Tributos and the Codex Mendoza.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 18, no. 1: 31–51.
Berdan, Frances F. 1976. “A Comparative
Analysis of Aztec Tribute Documents,”
in Actas del XLI Congreso Internacional de
Americanistas 2: 131–141. Mexico City:
Instituto Nacional de Antropología e
Historia.
Berdan, Frances F. 1978. “Ports of Trade in
Mesoamerica:A Reappraisal,” in Cultural
Continuity in Mesoamerica (D. Browman,
ed.): 179–198. The Hague: Mouton.
Berdan, Frances F. 1980. “The Matrícula
de Tributos: Introduction,” in Matricula
de Tributos: 9–24. Graz: Akademische
Druck-u.Verlagsanstalt.
Berdan, Frances F. 1985. “Markets in the
Economy of Aztec Mexico,” in Markets
and Marketing (Stuart Plattner, ed.): 339–
367. Lanham, MD: University Press of
America.
Berdan, Frances F. 1988. “Principles of
Regional and Long-Distance Trade in
the Aztec Empire,” in Smoke and Mist:
Mesoamerican Studies in Memory of Thelma
D. Sullivan (J. Kathryn Josserand and
Karen Dakin, eds.): 639–656. Oxford:
BAR International Series 402.
Berdan, Frances F. 1992a. “Glyphic
Conventions of the Codex Mendoza,” in

The Codex Mendoza (Frances F. Berdan
and Patricia Rieff Anawalt, eds.): 93–102.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 1992b. “The Imperial
Tribute Roll of the Codex Mendoza,” in
The Codex Mendoza (Frances F. Berdan
and Patricia Rieff Anawalt, eds.): 55–79.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 1993. “Trauma and
Transition in Sixteenth Century Central
Mexico,” in The Meeting of Two Worlds
(Warwick Bray, ed.): 163–195. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 1995. “Birds and Beasts
in Nahua Thought,” in Chipping Away
on Earth (Eloise Quiñones Keber, ed.):
153–162. Lancaster, CA: Labyrinthos.
Berdan, Frances F. 1996. “The Tributary
Provinces,” in Aztec Imperial Strategies
(Frances F. Berdan et al.): 115–135.
Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.
Berdan, Frances F. 1999. “Crime and
Control in Aztec Society,” in Organized
Crime in Antiquity (Keith Hopwood,
ed.): 255–269. London: Classical Press of
Wales.
Berdan, Frances F. 2001. “Tribute,” in The
Oxford Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican
Cultures (Davíd Carrasco, ed.): 3: 262–
264. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 2005. The Aztecs of Central
Mexico: An Imperial Society. Belmont, CA:
Wadsworth.
Berdan, Frances F. 2006a. “Continuity and
Change in Aztec Culture: From Imperial
Lords to Royal Subjects,” in Globalization
and Change in Fifteen Cultures: Born in
One World, Living in Another (George
Spindler and Janice E. Stockard, eds.):
1–23. Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
Berdan, Frances F. 2006b. “The Role of
Provincial Elites in the Aztec Empire,” in
Intermediate Elites in Pre-Columbian States
and Empires (Christina M. Elson and
R. Alan Covey, eds.): 154–165. Tucson:
University of Arizona Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 2007. “Material
Dimensions of Aztec Religion and
Ritual,” in Mesoamerican Ritual Economy
(E. Christian Wells and Karla DavisSalazar, eds.): 245–266. Boulder:
University Press of Colorado.

315

References
Berdan, Frances F. 2008. “Concepts of
Ethnicity and Class in Aztec-Period
Mexico,” in Ethnic Identity in Nahua
Mesoamerica (Frances F. Berdan et al.):
105–132. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 2009a. “Living on the
Edge in an Ancient Imperial World:
Aztec Crime and Deviance,” in Organised
Crime in History (Mark Galeotti, ed.):
20–34. London: Routledge.
Berdan, Frances F. 2009b. “Mesoamerican
Ethnohistory.” Ancient Mesoamerica 20,
no. 2: 211–215.
Berdan, Frances F. 2009c. “Moctezuma
II: la expansión del imperio mexica.”
Arqueología Mexicana 17, no. 98: 47–53.
Berdan, Frances F. 2009d. “Moctezuma’s
Military and Economic Rule.” In
Moctezuma: Aztec Ruler (Colin McEwan
and Leonardo López Luján, eds.): 182–
195. London: British Museum Press.
Berdan, Frances F. 2011a. “Levels and
Strategies of Competition in the Aztec
Empire,” in Competition in the Ancient World
(Nick Fisher and Hans van Wees, eds.):
59–84. Cardiff: Classical Press of Wales.
Berdan, Frances F. 2011b. “Rebeliones contra Tenochtitlan.” Arqueología Mexicana
19, no. 111: 32–36.
Berdan, Frances F. 2012. “Turquoise in the
Aztec ImperialWorld,” in Turquoise in Mexico
and North America: Science, Conservation,
Culture and Collections (J. C. H. King, Max
Carocci, Caroline Cartwright, Colin
McEwan, and Rebecca Stacey, eds.): 91–102.
London:Archetype / British Museum.
Berdan, Frances F. n.d. “The Technology
of Featherworking in Aztec Mexico:
Glyphic Clues in the Florentine Codex.”
Unpublished manuscript.
Berdan, Frances F., and Anawalt, Patricia
Rieff. 1992. The Codex Mendoza. 4 vols.
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Berdan, Frances F., Blanton, Richard E.,
Boone, Elizabeth Hill, Hodge, Mary
G., Smith, Michael E., and Umberger,
Emily. 1996. Aztec Imperial Strategies.
Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.
Berdan, Frances F., Chance, John K.,
Sandstrom, Alan R., Stark, Barbara
L., Taggart, James, and Umberger,

Emily. 2008. Ethnic Identity in Nahua
Mesoamerica. Salt Lake City: University
of Utah Press.
Berdan, Frances F., Kepecs, Susan, and Smith,
Michael E. 2003a. “A Perspective on Late
Postclassic Mesoamerica,” in The Postclassic
Mesoamerican World (Michael E. Smith and
Frances F. Berdan, eds.): 313–317. Salt Lake
City: University of Utah Press.
Berdan, Frances F., Masson, Marilyn A.,
Gasco, Janine, and Smith, Michael E.
2003b. “An International Economy,”
in The Postclassic Mesoamerican World
(Michael E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan,
eds.): 96–108. Salt Lake City: University
of Utah Press.
Berdan, Frances F., and Smith, Michael E.
1996. “Imperial Strategies and CorePeriphery Relations,” in Aztec Imperial
Strategies (Frances F. Berdan et al.): 209–
217. Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.
Berdan, Frances F., Stark, Edward A., and
Sahagún, Jeffrey D. 2009. “Production
and Use of Orchid Adhesives in Aztec
Mexico: The Domestic Context,” in
Housework: Craft Production and Domestic
Economy in Ancient Mesoamerica (Kenneth
G. Hirth, ed.): 148–156. Archaeological
Papers of the American Anthropological
Association, no. 19. Berkeley: University
of California Press.
Bierhorst, John. 1992. History and Mythology
of the Aztecs: The Codex Chimalpopoca.
Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
Blanton, Richard E. 1972. Prehistoric
Settlement Patterns of the Ixtapalapa
Region, Mexico. Occasional Papers
in Anthropology, vol. 6. University
Park: Pennsylvania State University
Department of Anthropology.
Blanton, Richard E. 1983. “Factors
Underlying the Origin and Evolution
of Market Systems,” in Economic
Anthropology: Topics and Theories (Sutti
Ortiz, ed.): 51–66. Lanham, MD:
University Press of America.
Blanton, Richard E. 1996. “The Basin of
Mexico Market System and the Growth
of Empire,” in Aztec Imperial Strategies
(Frances F. Berdan et al.): 47–84.
Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.

316

References
Blanton, Richard E., and Feinman, Gary M.
1984.“The MesoamericanWorld System.”
American Anthropologist 86: 673–682.
Blanton, Richard E., and Hodge, Mary
G. 1996. “Appendix 2: Data on Market
Activities and Production Specializations
of Tlatoani Centers,” in Aztec Imperial
Strategies (Frances F. Berdan et al.): 243–
246. Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.
Blanton, Richard E., Kowalewski, Stephen
A., Feinman, Gary M., and Finsten,
Laura M. 1993. Ancient Mesoamerica: A
Comparison of Change in Three Regions.
2d ed. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 1983. The Codex
Magliabechiano. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 1996. “Manuscript
Painting in Service of Imperial Ideology,”
in Aztec Imperial Strategies (Frances F.
Berdan et al.): 181–206. Washington,
DC: Dumbarton Oaks Research Library
and Collections.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 1999. “The
‘Coatlicues’ at the Templo Mayor.”
Ancient Mesoamerica 10: 189–206.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 2000a. Stories in Red
and Black: Pictorial Histories of the Aztecs
and Mixtecs. Austin: University of Texas
Press.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 2000b. “Venerable
Place of Beginnings: The Aztec
Understanding of Teotihuacan,” in
Mesoamerica’s Classic Heritage: From
Teotihuacan to the Aztecs (Davíd Carrasco,
Lindsay Jones, and Scott Sessions, eds.):
371–395. Boulder: University Press of
Colorado.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 2007. Cycles of Time
and Meaning in the Mexican Books of Fate.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Boone, Elizabeth Hill. 2011. “Ruptures
and Unions: Graphic Complexity
and Hybridity in Sixteenth-Century
Mexico,” in Their Way of Writing: Scripts,
Signs, and Pictographies in Pre-Columbian
America (Elizabeth Hill Boone and Gary
Urton, eds.): 197–225. Washington, DC:
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and
Collection.
Borah, Woodrow, and Cook, Sherburne
F. 1960. “The Population of Central

Mexico in 1548: An Analysis of the
Suma de Visitas de Pueblos.” IberoAmericana, vol. 43. Berkeley: University
of California Press.
Borah, Woodrow, and Cook, Sherburne F..
1963. The Aboriginal Population of Central
Mexico on the Eve of the Spanish Conquest.
Ibero-Americana, vol. 45. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Braniff de Torres, Beatriz, and Cervantes,
María Antonieta. 1966. “Excavaciones
en el antiguo acueducto de Chapultepec
I.” Tlalocan 5: 161–168.
Braniff de Torres, Beatriz, and Cervantes,
María Antonieta. 1967. “Excavaciones en
el antiguo acueducto de Chapultepec
II.” Tlalocan. 5: 265–266.
Broda, Johanna. 1978. “El tributo en trajes
guerreros y la estructura del sistema tributario mexica,” in Economía, política e ideologia en el México prehispánico (Pedro Carrasco
and Johanna Broda, eds.): 115–174. Mexico
City: CIS-INAH/Nueva Imagen.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1980. “Specialization, Market Exchange and the Aztec
State: A View from Huexotla.” Current
Anthropology 21: 459–478.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1983. “Aztec
State Making: Ecology, Structure, and
the Origin of the State.” American
Anthropologist 85, no. 2: 261–284.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1987. “Consumption and Politics at Aztec Huexotla.”
American Anthropologist 89: 676–686.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1991a.“Agricultural
Development and Class Stratification
in the Southern Valley of Mexico,” in
Land and Politics in the Valley of Mexico
(H. R. Harvey, ed.): 43–62. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1991b. “Weaving
and Cooking: Women’s Production
in Aztec Mexico,” in Engendering
Archaeology: Women and Prehistory (Joan
M. Gero and Margaret W. Conkey, eds.):
224–251. Oxford: Blackwell.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 1996.“Figurines and
the Aztec State: Testing the Effectiveness
of Ideological Domination,” in Gender
and Archaeology (R. P. Wright, ed.):
143–166. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M. 2001. “Aztec
Hearts and Minds: Religion and the

317

References
State in the Aztec Empire,” in Empires:
Perspectives from Archaeology and History
(Susan Alcock, Terence D’Altroy,
Kathleen Morrison, and Carla Sinopoli,
eds.): 283–310. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M., Salcedo, Tamara,
and Schafer, David K. 1994. “The
Lip Plugs of Xaltocan: Function and
Meaning in Aztec Archaeology,” in
Economies and Polities in the Aztec Realm
(Mary G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith,
eds.): 113–131. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Burkhart, Louise M. 1989. The Slippery
Earth. Tucson: University of Arizona
Press.
Burkhart, Louise M. 1996. Holy Wednesday:
A Nahua Drama from Early Colonial
Mexico. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Burkhart, Louise. 1997. “Mexica Women
on the Home Front: Housework and
Religion in Aztec Mexico,” in Indian
Women of Early Mexico (Susan Schroeder,
Stephanie Wood, and Robert Haskett,
eds.): 25–54. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Burkhart, Louise M. 2011. Aztecs on Stage:
Religious Theater in Colonial Mexico.
Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Bye, Robert, and Linares Edelmira. 1999.
“Plantas medicinales de México prehispánico.” Arqueología Mexicana 7,
no. 39: 4–13.
Calnek, Edward E. 1972. “Settlement
Pattern and Chinampa Agriculture at
Tenochtitlan.” American Antiquity 37:
104–115.
Calnek, Edward E. 1974a.“Conjunto urbana
y modelo residencial en Tenochtitlan,” in
Ensayos sobre el desarollo urbano de México
(Woodrow Borah, ed.): 11–65. Mexico
City: Secretaría de Educación Pública.
Calnek, Edward E. 1974b. “The Sahagún
Texts as a Source of Sociological
Information,” in Sixteenth Century
Mexico: The Work of Sahagún (Munro S.
Edmonson, ed.): 189–204. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Carballal Staedtler, Margarita, Flores
Hernández, María, and Lechuga García,
María del Carmen. 2008. “Salvamento

arqueológico en Tlatelolco.” Arqueología
Mexicana 15, no. 99: 53–56.
Carmack, Robert M., and Salgado
Gonzáles, Silvia. 2006. “A WorldSystems Perspective on the Archaeology
and Ethnohistory of the Mesoamerican
/ Lower Central American Border.”
Ancient Mesoamerica 17, no. 2: 219–229.
Carrasco, Davíd. 1999. City of Sacrifice: The
Aztec Empire and the Role of Violence in
Civilization. Boston: Beacon Press.
Carrasco, Davíd. 2001. “Central Mexican
Religion,” in Archaeology of Ancient Mexico
and Central America: An Encyclopedia
(Susan Toby Evans and David L.Webster,
eds.): 102–108. New York: Garland.
Carrasco, Pedro. 1971. “Social Organization
of Ancient Mexico,” in Handbook
of Middle American Indians, vol. 10
(G. Ekholm and I. Bernal, eds.): 349–375.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Carrasco, Pedro. 1976. “Estratificación
social indígena en Morelos durante el
siglo XVI,” in Estratificación social en la
Mesoamérica prehispánica (Pedro Carrasco
and Johanna Broda, eds.): 102–117.
Mexico City: Centro de Investigaciones
Superiores del Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Carrasco, Pedro. 1984. “Royal Marriages
in Ancient Mexico,” in Explorations in
Ethnohistory (H. R. Harvey and Hanns
J. Prem, eds.): 41–81. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Carrasco, Pedro. 1999. The Tenochca Empire
of Ancient Mexico: The Triple Alliance
of Tenochtitlan, Tetzcoco, and Tlacopan.
Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Caso, Alfonso. 1958. The Aztecs: People of the
Sun. Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Caso, Alfonso. 1971. “Calendrical Systems
of Central Mexico,” in Handbook of
Middle American Indians, vol. 10 (G.
Ekholm and I. Bernal, eds.): 333–348.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Chance, John K. 2000. “The Noble House
in Colonial Puebla: Descent, Inheritance
and the Nahua Tradition.” American
Anthropologist 102: 485–502.
Chance, John K., and Stark, Barbara L. 2007.
“EstrategÍas empleadas en las provincias
imperiales: perspectives prehispánicas

318

References
y coloniales en Mesoamérica.” Revista
Española de Antropología Americana 37,
no. 2: 203–233.
Chapman, Anne. 1957. “Port of Trade
Enclaves in Aztec and Maya Civilization,”
in Trade and Market in the Early Empires
(Karl Polanyi, C. Arensberg, and H. W.
Pearson, eds.): 114–153. New York: Free
Press.
Charlton, Thomas H. 1978. “Teotihuacan,
Tepeapulco, and Obsidian Exploitation.”
Science 200: 1227–1236.
Charlton, Thomas H. 1994. “Economic
Heterogeneity and State Expansion:
The Northeastern Basin of Mexico
during the Late Postclassic Period,” in
Economies and Polities in the Aztec Realm
(Mary G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith,
eds.): 221–256. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Charlton, Thomas H. 2000. “The Aztecs
and Their Contemporaries: The Central
and Eastern Mexican Highlands,” in The
Cambridge History of the Native Peoples of
the Americas, vol. II: Mesoamerica (Richard
E. W. Adams and Murdo J. MacLeod,
eds.): 500–557. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Charlton,Thomas H., Nichols, Deborah L.,
and Otis Charlton, Cynthia. 1991.“Aztec
Craft Production and Specialization:
Archaeological Evidence from the
City-State of Otumba, Mexico.” World
Archaeology 23: 98–114.
Chase, Arlen F., Chase, Diane Z., and
Smith, Michael E. 2009. “States and
Empires in Ancient Mesoamerica,” in
Ancient Mesoamerica, vol. 20, no. 2: 175–
182. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Chase-Dunn, Christopher, and Hall,
Thomas D. 1997. Rise and Demise:
Comparing World Systems. Boulder, CO:
Westview Press.
Chávez Balderas, Ximena. 2007. Rituales
funerarios en elTemplo Mayor deTenochtitlan.
Mexico City: Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Chávez, Ximena, Aguirre, Alejandra,
Miramontes, Ana, and Robles, Erika.
2010. “Los cuchillos ataviados de
la Ofrenda 125, Templo Mayor de
Tenochtitlan.” Arqueología Mexicana 17,
no. 103: 70–75.

Chevalier, Jacques S., and Sánchez Bain,
Andrés. 2003. The Hot and the Cold: Ills
of Humans and Maize in Native Mexico.
Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Clavijero, Francisco J. 1970. Historia
Antigua de Mexico. Mexico City: Editora
Nacional.
Clendinnen, Inga. 1991. Aztecs: An
Interpretation. New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Cline, Howard F. 1964. “The Relaciones
Geograficas of the Spanish Indies, 1577–
1586.” Hispanic American Historical Review
44: 341–374.
Cline, Howard F. 1973. “Introduction:
Reflections on Ethnohistory,” in
Handbook of Middle American Indians, vol.
12 (Robert Wauchope, ed.): 3–15. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Cline, S. L. 1984. “Land Tenure and
Land Inheritance in Late SixteenthCentury Culhuacan,” in Explorations in
Ethnohistory (H. R. Harvey and Hanns
J. Prem, eds.): 277–309. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Cline, S. L., ed. 1993. The Book of Tributes:
Early Sixteenth-Century Nahuatl Censuses
from Morelos. Los Angeles: UCLA Latin
American Center Publications.
Cline, S. L., and León-Portilla, Miguel, eds.
1984. The Testaments of Culhuacan. Los
Angeles: UCLA Latin American Center
Publications.
Codex Azcatitlan. 1995. Paris: Bibliothèque
nationale de France.
Códice Osuna. 1947 (Luis Chávez Orozco,
ed.). Mexico City: Instituto Indigenista
Interamericano.
Coe, Sophie D. 1994. America’s First Cuisines.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Cohen, Amanda, and Elson, Christina
M. n.d. “The Aztec Occupation at
Chiconautla, Mexico”; anthro.amnh.
org/anthropology/research/aztec.htm.
Cool, H. E. M. 2006. Eating and Drinking in
Roman Britain. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Cortés, Hernando. 1928. Five Letters of Cortés
to the Emperor (J. Bayard Morris, trans.).
New York: W. W. Norton. (Originally
written 1519–1526.)
Costin, Cathy Lynne. 1991. “Craft
Specialization: Issues in Defining,
Documenting, and Explaining the

319

References
Organization of Production,” in
Archaeological Method and Theory, vol. 3
(Michael B. Schiffer, ed.): 1–56. Tucson:
University of Arizona Press.
Costin, Cathy Lynne. 2001. “Craft
Production Systems,” in Archaeology at
the Millennium (Gary M. Feinman and
T. Douglas Price, eds.): 273–327. New
York: Kluwer.
Crown, Patricia, and Hurst,W. Jeffrey. 2009.
“Cacao Use in the Prehispanic American
Southwest.” Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 106: 2110–2113.
Dahlin, Bruce H., Jensen, Christopher T.,
Terry, Richard E.,Wright, David R., and
Beach, Timothy. 2007. “In Search of an
Ancient Maya Market.” Latin American
Antiquity 18, no. 4: 363–384.
Davies, Nigel. 1987. The Aztec Empire.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press.
Díaz del Castillo, Bernal. 1963. The Conquest
of New Spain. Baltimore: Penguin.
(Originally written 1560s.)
Dibble, Charles E. 1981. Codex en Cruz.
2 vols. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Diehl, Richard A. 2004. “Tula and the
Tolteca,” in The Aztec Empire (Felipe
Solís, ed.): 124–129. Mexico, City:
INAH/Conaculta.
Diel, Lori Boornazian. 2007. “Till Death
Do Us Part: Unconventional Marriages
as Aztec Political Strategy.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 18, no. 2: 259–272.
Diel, Lori Boornazian. 2008. The Tira de
Tepechpan: Negotiating Place under Aztec
and Spanish Rule. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Doolittle, William E. 1990. Canal Irrigation
in Prehistoric Mexico. Austin: University
of Texas Press.
Douglas, Eduardo de J. 2010. In the Palace
of Nezahualcoyotl. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Durán, Fray Diego. 1967. Historia de las Indias
de Nueva España (Angel M. Garibay K.,
ed.). 2 vols. Mexico City: Porrúa.
Durán, Fray Diego. 1971. Book of the Gods and
Rites and the Ancient Calendar (Fernando
Horcasitas and Doris Heyden, eds. and
trans.). Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press. (Originally written 1581.)
Durán, Fray Diego. 1994. The History
of the Indies of New Spain (Doris

Heyden, trans.). Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Ecker, Lawrence. 2001. Códice de Huichapan
(Yolanda Lastra and Doris Bartholomew,
eds.). Mexico City: Instituto de
Investigaciones Antropológicas and
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
Mexico.
Edwards, Clinton R. 1978.“Pre-Columbian
Maritime Trade in Mesoamerica,” in
Mesoamerican Communication Routes and
Cultural Contacts (Thomas A. Lee, Jr.,
and Carlos Navarrete, eds.): 199–209.
Provo, UT: New World Archaeological
Foundation.
Elson, Christina M. 1999. “An Aztec Palace
at Chiconautla, Mexico.” Latin American
Antiquity 10, no. 2: 151–167.
Elson, Christina M., and Smith, Michael
E. 2001. “Archaeological Deposits from
the Aztec New Fire Ceremony.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 12: 157–174.
ENE. 1939–1942. Epistolario de Nueva
España (Francisco de Paso y Troncoso,
ed.). 16 vols. Mexico City.
Evans, Susan. 1988. Excavations at
Cihuatecpan, an Aztec Village in the
Teotihuacan Valley. Vanderbilt University
Publications in Anthropology, vol.
36. Nashville: Vanderbilt University,
Department of Anthropology.
Evans, Susan. 1990. “The Productivity of
Maguey Terrace Agriculture in Central
Mexico during the Aztec Period.” Latin
American Antiquity 1: 117–132.
Evans, Susan. 1991. “Architecture and
Authority in an Aztec Village: Form
and Function of the Tecpan,” in Land
and Politics in the Valley of Mexico: A
Two Thousand Year Perspective (Herbert
R. Harvey, ed.): 63–92. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Evans, Susan. 2005. “Men, Women, and
Maguey: The Household Division
of Labor among Aztec Farmers,”
in Settlement, Subsistence, and Social
Complexity: Essays Honoring the Legacy
of Jeffrey R. Parsons (Richard E. Blanton,
ed.): 198–228. Los Angeles: Cotsen
Institute of Archaeology, UCLA.
Fabiola Guzmán, Ana, and Polaco, Oscar J.
2008. “Chacal Faunal Resources: Early
Toltec to Late Aztec,” in Place of Jade:
Society and Economy in Ancient Chalco

320

References
(Mary G. Hodge, ed.): 303–326. Mexico
City: Instituto Nacional de Antropología
e Historia.
Fargher, Lane F., Blanton, Richard E.,
and Heredia Espinoza, Verenice Y. 2010.
“Egalitarian Ideology and Political
Power in Prehispanic Central Mexico:
The Case of Tlaxcallan.” Latin American
Antiquity 21, no. 3: 227–251.
Fargher, Lane F., Heredia Espinoza,Verenice
Y., and Blanton, Richard E. 2011a.
“Alternative Pathways to Power in Late
Postclassic Highland Mesoamerica.”
Journal of Anthropological Archaeology 30:
306–326.
Fargher, Lane F., Blanton, Richard E.,
Heredia Espinoza,VereniceY., Millhauser,
John, Xiuhtecuhtli, Nezahualcoyotl, and
Overholtzer, Lisa. 2011b.“Tlaxcallan:The
Archaeology of an Ancient Republic in
the New World.” Antiquity 85: 172–186.
Feinman, Gary M. 2001. “Crafts and
Craft Specialization,” in Archaeology of
Ancient Mexico and Central America: An
Encyclopedia (Susan Toby Evans and
David L. Webster, eds.): 191–195. New
York: Garland.
Feinman,Gary M.,and Garraty,Christopher
P. 2010. “Preindustrial Markets and
Marketing: Archaeological Perspectives.”
Annual Review of Anthropology 39:
167–191.
Feinman, Gary M., and Nicholas, Linda
M. 2000. “New Perspectives on
Prehispanic Highland Mesoamerica: A
Macroregional Approach,” in The Ancient
Civilizations of Mesoamerica (Michael E.
Smith and Marilyn A. Masson, eds.):
204–216. Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Fields, Virginia M., and Zamudio-Taylor,
Victor. 2001. The Road to Aztlan. Los
Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum
of Art.
Foster, Michael S., and Gorenstein, Shirley.
2000. Greater Mesoamerica. Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press.
Frank, Andre G. 1966. “The Development
of Underdevelopment.” Monthly Review
18, no. 4: 17–31.
Galaty, Michael L. 2011. “World-Systems
Analysis and Anthropology: A New
Détente?” Reviews in Anthropology
40: 3–26.

García Márquez, Agustín. 2005. Los Aztecas
en el Centro de Veracruz. Mexico City:
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
Mexico.
Garduña, Ana. 1997. Conflictos y alianzas
entre Tlatelolco y Tenochtitlan. Mexico
City: Instituto Nacional de Antropología
e Historia.
Garraty, Christopher P. 2000. “Ceramic
Indices of Aztec Eliteness.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 11, no. 2: 323–340.
Garraty, Christopher P. 2009. “Evaluating
the Distributional Approach to Inferring
Marketplace Exchange: A Test Case
from the Mexican Gulf Lowlands.” Latin
American Antiquity 20: 157–174.
Garraty, Christopher P. 2010. “Investigating
Market Exchange in Ancient Societies:
A Theoretical Review,” in Archaeological
Approaches to Market Exchange in Ancient
Societies (Christopher P. Garraty and
Barbara L. Stark, eds.): 3–32. Boulder:
University Press of Colorado.
Gasco, Janine. In press. “Anthropogenic
Landscapes of the Soconusco, Past and
Present,” in Colonial and Postcolonial
Change in Mesoamerica: Archaeology as
Historical Anthropology (Rani T.Alexander
and Susan Kepecs, eds.). Santa Fe: School
for American Research.
Gasco, Janine, and Berdan, Frances. 2003.
“International Trade Centers,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael
E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.):
109–116. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Gasco, Janine, and Voorhies, Barbara. 1989.
“The Ultimate Tribute: The Role of
the Soconusco as an Aztec Tributary,” in
Ancient Trade and Tribute: Economies of the
Soconusco Region of Mesoamerica (Barbara
Voorhies, ed.): 48–94. Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press.
Gates, William, trans. and commentary.
1939. The De La Cruz-Badiano Aztec
Herbal of 1552. Baltimore: Maya Society
Publication 23.
Gelb, I. J. 1952. A Study of Writing. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Gerhard, Peter. 1993. A Guide to the
Historical Geography of New Spain. Rev.
ed. Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.

321

References
Gibson, Charles. 1952. Tlaxcala in the
Sixteenth Century. New Haven, CT:Yale
University Press.
Gibson, Charles. 1964. The Aztecs Under
Spanish Rule. Stanford, CA: Stanford
University Press.
Gibson, Charles. 1971. “Structure of the
Aztec Empire,” in Handbook of Middle
American Indians, vol. 10 (R. Wauchope,
G. Ekholm, and I. Bernal, eds.): 376–394.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Gibson, Charles. 1975. “A Survey of
Middle American Prose Manuscripts
in the Native Historical Tradition,” in
Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 15 (H. Cline, ed.): 311–321. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Gibson, Charles, and Glass, John B. 1975.
“A Census of Middle American Prose
Manuscripts in the Native Historical
Tradition,” in Handbook of Middle American
Indians, vol.15 (H. Cline, ed.): 323–400.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Gillespie, Susan D. 1989. The Aztec Kings.
Tucson: University of Arizona Press.
Glass, John B. 1975. “A Survey of Native
Middle American Pictorial Manuscripts,”
in Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 14 (H. Cline, ed.): 3–80. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Glass, John B., and Robertson, Donald.
1975. “A Census of Native Middle
American Pictorial Manuscripts,” in
Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 14 (H. Cline, ed.): 81–252. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
González Torres, Yolotl. 1985. El sacrificio
humano entre los Mexicas. Mexico City:
Instituto Nacional de Antropología e
Historia.
González Torres,Yolotl. 2003. “El sacrificio
humano entre los Mexicas.” Arqueología
Mexicana 11, no. 63: 40–43.
Guilliem Arroyo, Salvador. 1999. Ofrendas a
Ehécatl-Quetzalcóatl en Mexico-Tlatelolco.
Mexico City: Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Guilliem
Arroyo,
Salvador.
2008a.
“Exploraciones
arqueológicas
en
Tlatelolco.” Arqueología Mexicana 15, no. 89:
46–52.
Guilliem Arroyo, Salvador. 2008b. “La caja
de agua del Colegio de la Santa Cruz de

Tlatelolco.” Arqueología Mexicana 15, no
89: 62–65.
Gutiérrez, Gerardo. 2010. Arqueología de la
Antiqua Provincia de Tlapa. Mexico City:
Editorial Letra Antigua.
Gutiérrez, Gerardo, König, Viola, and
Brito, Baltazar. 2009. Códice Humboldt
Fragmento 1 y Códice Azoyú 2 reverso.
Mexico City: CIESAS.
Harner, Michael. 1977. “The Ecological
Basis for Aztec Sacrifice.” American
Ethnologist 4, no. 1: 117–135.
Harris, Marvin. 2011 [1977]. Cannibals and
Kings. New York: Random House.
Harvey, H. R. 1984.“Aspects of Land Tenure
in Ancient Mexico,” in Explorations in
Ethnohistory (H. R. Harvey and Hanns
J. Prem, eds.): 83–102. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Haskett, Robert. 1991. Indigenous Rulers:
An Ethnohistory of Town Government
in Colonial Cuernavaca. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Hassig, Ross. 1986. “One Hundred Years
of Servitude: Tlamemes in Early New
Spain,” in Supplement to the Handbook
of Middle American Indians: Ethnohistory
(Ronald Spores, ed.): 134–152. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Hassig, Ross. 1988. Aztec Warfare. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Hassig, Ross. 2001. “Transport,” in
Archaeology of Ancient Mexico and Central
America (Susan Toby Evans and David
L. Webster, eds.): 767–768. New York:
Garland.
Hernández, Francisco. 1959. Historia natural
de Nueva España. 2 vols. (Obras completas,
vols. 2 and 3). Mexico City: Universidad
Nacional de México. (Originally written 1571–1577.)
Hicks, Frederic. 1976. “Mayeque y
calpuleque en el sistema de clases del
México antiguo,” in Estratificación Social
en la Mesoamérica Prehispánica (Pedro
Carrasco and Johanna Broda, eds.): 67–77.
Mexico City: Centro de Investigaciones
Superiores del Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Hicks, Frederic. 1984. “Rotational Labor
and Urban Development in Prehispanic
Tetzcoco,” in Explorations in Ethnohistory
(H. R. Harvey and Hanns J. Prem, eds.):

322

References
147–174. Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press.
Hicks, Frederic. 1986. “Prehispanic
Background of Colonial Political and
Economic Organization in Central
Mexico,” in Supplement to the Handbook
of Middle American Indians: Ethnohistory
(Ronald Spores, ed.): 35–54. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Hicks, Frederic. 1994. “Cloth in the
Political Economy of the Aztec State,” in
Economies and Polities in the Aztec Realm
(Mary G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith,
eds.): 89–111. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Hicks, Frederic. 1999. “The Middle Class
in Ancient Central Mexico.” Journal of
Anthropological Research 55: 409–427.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 1978. “Interregional
Trade and the Formation of Prehistoric
Gateway
Communities.” American
Antiquity 43, no. 1: 35–45.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 1984. “The Analysis of
Prehistoric Economic Systems: A Look
to the Future,” in Trade and Exchange in
Early Mesoamerica (Kenneth G. Hirth,
ed.): 281–302. Albuquerque: University
of New Mexico Press.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 1996. “Political
Economy and Archaeology: Perspectives
on Exchange and Production.” Journal of
Archaeological Research 4: 203–239.
Hirth, Kenneth
G. 1998. “The
Distributional Approach: A New Way
to Identify Marketplace Exchange in
the Archaeological Record.” Current
Anthropology 39: 451–476.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 2009a. “Craft
Production, Household Diversification,
and Domestic Economy in Prehispanic
Mesoamerica,” in Housework: Craft
Production and Domestic Economy in
Ancient Mesoamerica (Kenneth Hirth,
ed.): 13–32. Archaeological Papers of the
American Anthropological Association,
no. 19. Berkeley: University of California
Press.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 2009b.“Craft Production
in a Central Mexican Marketplace.”
Ancient Mesoamerica 20, no. 1: 89–102.
Hirth, Kenneth G. 2010.“Finding the Mark
in the Marketplace: The Organization,
Development, and Archaeological

Identification of Market Systems,”
in Archaeological Approaches to Market
Exchange in Ancient Societies (Christopher
P. Garraty and Barbara L. Stark, eds.):
227–247. Boulder: University Press of
Colorado.
Hodge, Mary G. 1984. Aztec City-States.
Ann Arbor: Memoirs of the Museum of
Anthropology, University of Michigan,
no. 18.
Hodge, Mary G. 1994.“Polities Composing
the Aztec Empire’s Core,” in Economies
and Polities in the Aztec Realm (Mary
G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith,
eds.): 43–71. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Hodge, Mary G. 1996. “Political
Organization of the Central Provinces,”
in Aztec Imperial Strategies (Frances F.
Berdan et al.): 17–45. Washington, DC:
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and
Collection.
Hodge, Mary G. 1997. “When Is a CityState? Archaeological Measures of
Aztec City-States and Aztec City-State
Systems,” in The Archaeology of CityStates (Deborah L. Nichols and Thomas
H. Charlton, eds.): 209–227.Washington,
DC: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Hodge, Mary G. 1998. “Archaeological
Views of Aztec Culture.” Journal of
Archaeological Research 6: 197–238.
Hopkins, Nicholas A. 1980. “Chuj Animal
Names and Their Classification.” Journal
of Mayan Linguistics 2, no. 2: 13–39.
Horn, Rebecca. 1997. Postconquest Coyoacan:
Nahua-Spanish Relations in Central
Mexico, 1519–1650. Stanford, CA: Stanford
University Press.
Hosler, Dorothy. 2003. “Metal Production,”
in The Postclassic Mesoamerican World
(Michael E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan,
eds.): 159–171. Salt Lake City: University
of Utah Press.
Hosler, Dorothy, Lechtman, Heather, and
Holm, Olaf. 1990. Axe-Monies and Their
Relatives. Dumbarton Oaks Studies in
Pre-Columbian Art and Archaeology, vol.
30. Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks.
Johansson K., Patrick. 2007. “Tira de la
Peregrinación (Códice Boturini): estudio
introductorio,” in Arqueología Mexicana
(edición especial códices), no. 26: 6–16.

323

References
Mexico City: Editorial Raíces/Instituto
Nacional de Antropología e Historia.
Johnson, Matthew. 2004.“Agency, Structure
and Archaeological Practice,” in Agency
Uncovered: Archaeological Perspectives on
Social Agency, Power, and Being Human
(Andrew Gardner, ed.): 241–247.
Portland, OR: Cavendish.
Karttunen, Frances. 1982. “Nahuatl
Literacy,” in The Inca and Aztec States,
1400–1800: Anthropology and History
(George A. Collier, Renato I. Rosaldo,
and John D. Wirth, eds.): 395–417. New
York: Academic Press.
Keen, Benjamin. 1971. The Aztec Image in
Western Thought. New Brunswick, NJ:
Rutgers University Press.
Kellogg, Susan. 1986a. “Aztec Inheritance
in Sixteenth-Century Mexico City:
Colonial Patterns, Prehispanic Influences.” Ethnohistory 33, no. 3: 313–330.
Kellogg, Susan. 1986b. “Kinship and
Social Organization in Early Colonial
Tenochtitlan,” in Supplement to the
Handbook of Middle American Indians, vol.
4 (Ronald Spores, ed.): 103–121. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Kellogg, Susan. 1995. Law and the
Transformation of Aztec Culture, 1500–1700.
Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Kellogg, Susan. 1997. “From Parallel and
Equivalent to Separate but Unequal:
Tenochca Mexica Women, 1500–1700,”
in Indian Women of Early Mexico (Susan
Schroeder, Stephanie Wood, and Robert
Haskett, eds.): 123–143. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Kepecs, Susan, and Kohl, Philip. 2003.
“Conceptualizing
Macroregional
Interaction: World-Systems Theory and
the Archaeological Record,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael E.
Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.): 14–20.
Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press.
Kirchhoff, Paul. 1943. “Mesoamérica: sus
límites geográficas, composición étnica,
y caracteres culturales.” Acta Americana 1:
92–107.
Klein, Cecilia F. 2000. “The Devil and the
Skirt: An Iconographic Inquiry into the
Pre-Hispanic Nature of the Tzitzimime.”
Ancient Mesoamerica 11: 1–26.

Klor de Alva, J. Jorge. 1982. “Spiritual
Conflict and Accommodation in New
Spain: Toward a Typology of Responses
to Christianity,” in The Inca and Aztec
States, 1400–1800:Anthropology and History
(George A. Collier, Renato I. Rosaldo,
and John D. Wirth, eds.): 345–366. New
York: Academic Press.
Kubler, George, and Gibson, Charles.
1951. The Tovar Calendar. Memoirs
of the Connecticut Academy of Arts
and Sciences, no. 11. New Haven:
Connecticut Academy of Arts and
Sciences. (Originally written ca. 1585.)
Landa, Diego de. 1941. Relación de las
cosas de Yucatan (Alfred M. Tozzer, ed.).
Cambridge, MA: Papers of the Peabody
Museum of American Archaeology and
Ethnology, vol. 18.
Las Casas, Bartolomé de. 1967. Apologética
Historia Sumaria.Mexico City:Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de Mexico.
LeClair, Edward E., and Schneider, Harold
K., eds. 1968. Economic Anthropology. New
York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Lekson, Stephen H., and Peregrine, Peter
N. 2004. “A Continental Perspective for
North American Archaeology.” SAA
Archaeological Record, January 2004: 15–17.
León, Nicolás, ed. 1982. Códice Sierra.
Mexico City: Editorial Innovación.
León-Portilla, Miguel. 1963. Aztec Thought
and Culture. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
León-Portilla, Miguel. 1969. Pre-Columbian
Literatures of Mexico. Norman: University
of Oklahoma Press.
León-Portilla, Miguel. 1992. Fifteen Poets of
the Aztec World. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
León-Portilla, Miguel. 2002. Bernardino de
Sahagún: First Anthropologist. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
León-Portilla, Miguel, and Shorris, Earl.
2001. In the Language of Kings. New York:
W. W. Norton.
Lewis, Oscar. 1951. Life in a Mexican Village.
Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Linne, S. 1948. El Valle y la Ciudad de Mexico
en 1550. Stockholm: Ethnographic
Museum of Sweden, new series pub. 9.
Lockhart, James. 1992. The Nahuas after the
Conquest: A Social and Cultural History of

324

References
the Indians of Central Mexico. Stanford,
CA: Stanford University Press.
Lockhart, James, Berdan, Frances, and
Anderson,Arthur J. O. 1986. TheTlaxcalan
Actas: A Compendium of the Records of the
Cabildo of Tlaxcala (1545–1627). Salt Lake
City: University of Utah Press.
Lockhart, James, Schroeder, Susan, and
Namala, Doris, eds. and trans. 2006.
Annals of His Time. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
López Austin, Alfredo. 1973. Hombre-Dios:
religión y política en el mundo Nahuatl.
Mexico City: Universidad Nacional
Autónoma de Mexico.
López Austin, Alfredo. 1988. The Human
Body and Ideology: Concepts of the Ancient
Nahuas (T. Ortiz de Montellano and B.
Ortiz de Montellano, trans.). 2 vols. Salt
Lake City: University of Utah Press.
López Austin, Alfredo. 1993. The Myths of
the Oppossum: Pathways of Mesoamerican
Mythology (Bernard R. Ortiz de
Montellano and Thelma Ortiz de
Montellano,
trans.). Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
López Austin, Alfredo. 1997. Tamoanchan,
Tlalocan: Places of Mist. Boulder:
University Press of Colorado.
López Austin,Alfredo. 2001.“Cosmovision,”
in The Oxford Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican
Cultures, (Davíd Carrasco, ed.): 1: 268–
274. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
López Austin, Alfredo, and López Luján,
Leonardo. 2010. “El sacrificio humano
entre los mexicas.” Arqueología Mexicana
17, no. 103: 24–33.
López Luján, Leonardo. 1999. “Water and
Fire: Archaeology in the Capital of the
Mexica Empire,” in The Archaeology of
Mesoamerica (Warwick Bray and Linda
Manzanilla, eds.): 32–49. London: British
Museum Press.
López Luján, Leonardo. 2005. The Offerings
of theTemplo Mayor ofTenochtitlan (Bernard
Ortiz de Montellano and Thelma Ortiz
de Montellano, trans.). Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
López Luján, Leonardo. 2006. La Casa de
las Aguilas. 2 vols. Mexico City: Instituto
Nacional de Antropología e Historia.
López Luján, Leonardo. 2008. “El adiós y
triste queja del gran Calendario Azteca.”
Arqueología Mexicana 16, no. 91: 78–83.

López Luján, Leonardo, and López
Austin, Alfredo. 2011. “El coatepantli de
Tenochtitlan: historia de un malentendido.” Arqueología Mexicana 19, no. 111:
64–71.
López Luján, Leonardo, Neff, Hector, and
Sugiyama, Saburo. 2000. “The 9-Xi Vase:
A Classic Thin Orange Vessel Found at
Tenochtitlan,” in Mesoamerica’s Classic
Heritage: From Teotihuacan to the Aztecs
(Davíd Carrasco, Lindsay Jones, and
Scott Sessions, eds.): 219–249. Boulder:
University Press of Colorado.
López Luján, Leonardo, and Olivier,
Guilhem. 2009. “El estera y el trono: los
símbolos de poder de Motecuhzoma II.”
Arqueología Mexicana 17, no. 98: 40–46.
López Luján, Leonardo, and Urcid, Javier.
2002. “El Chacmool de Mixquic y el
sacrificio humano.” Estudios de Cultura
Nahuatl 33: 25–43.
Luttwak, Edward. 1976. The Grand Strategy
of the Roman Empire. Baltimore: Johns
Hopkins University Press.
Madsen, William. 1967. “Religious
Syncretism,” in Handbook of Middle
American Indians, vol. 6 (Robert
Wauchope, ed.): 369–391. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Mair, Lucy. 1977. African Kingdoms. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Mancall, Peter C. 2007. Hakluyt’s Promise:
An Elizabethan’s Obsession for an English
America. New Haven, CT:Yale University
Press.
Manzanilla, Linda. 2004. “Teotihuacan,” in
The Aztec Empire (Felipe Solís, ed.): 114–
123. Mexico City: INAH/Conaculta.
Mapa Quinatzin. 1920. “Mapa Quinatzin,”
in Sources and Authenticity of the History of
the Ancient Mexicans. Berkeley: University
of California Publications in American
Archaeology and Ethnology 17. no. 1:
1–150.
Marcus, Joyce. 1998. “The Peaks and Valleys
of Ancient States: An Extension of the
Dynamic Model,” in Archaic States (Gary
M. Feinman and Joyce Marcus, eds.): 59–
94. Santa Fe, NM: School of American
Research Press.
Martínez del Campo Lanz, Sofía, ed. 2010.
La Máscara de Malinaltepec. Mexico City:
Instituto Nacional de Antropología e
Historia.

325

References
Martínez Vargas, Enrique. 2003. “ZultepecTecoaque: sacrificios de Españoles y sus
aliados durante la conquista.” Arqueología
Mexicana 11, no. 63: 52–57.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo. 1988. The
Great Temple of the Aztecs. London:
Thames and Hudson.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo. 1995. Life
and Death in the Templo Mayor (Bernard
R. Ortiz de Montellano and Thelma
Ortiz de Montellano, trans.). Boulder:
University Press of Colorado.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo. 2001.
“Tenochtitlan,”
in
The
Oxford
Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican Cultures
(Davíd Carrasco, ed.), 3: 198–200.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo. 2008. “La
arqueología de Tlatelolco: de la colonia
a los sesenta del siglo XX.” Arqueología
Mexicana 15, no. 89: 38–45.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo. 2009. “The
Coronation of Moctezuma II,” in
Moctezuma: Aztec Ruler (Colin McEwan
and Leonardo López Luján, eds.): 56–67.
London: British Museum Press.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo, and López
Luján, Leonardo. 2007. “La diosa
Tlaltecuhtli de la Casa de las Ajaracas y
el rey Ahuitzotl.” Arqueología Mexicana
83: 22–29.
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo, and Solís,
Felipe. 2004. The Aztec Calendar and
Other Solar Monuments. Mexico City:
Conaculta/INAH.
Matrícula de Tributos. 1980. Matrícula de
Tributos, Museo de Antropología, México
(Col. 35–52). Graz: Akademische
Druck-u. Verlagsanstalt. (Originally
composed early sixteenth century, preconquest.)
McAnany, Patricia. 2002. “Rethinking the
Great and Little Tradition Paradigm from
the Perspective of Domestic Ritual,” in
Domestic Ritual in Ancient Mesoamerica
(Patricia Plunket, ed.): 115–119. Los
Angeles: UCLA, Cotsen Institute of
Archaeology.
McCaa, Robert. 1994. “Marriageways
in Mexico and Spain, 1500–1900.”
Continuity and Change 9, no. 1: 11–43.
McCafferty, Geoffrey. 2001. “Cholula,” in
The Oxford Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican
Cultures (Davíd Carrasco, ed.), 1:

202–206. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
McEwan, Colin, and López Luján,
Leonardo. 2009. Moctezuma: Aztec Ruler.
London: British Museum Press.
McEwan, Colin, Middleton, Andrew,
Cartwright, Caroline, and Stacey,
Rebecca. 2006. Turquoise Mosaics from
Mexico. London: British Museum Press.
Megged, Amos. 1991. “Accommodation
and Resistance of Elites in Transition:
The Case of Chiapa in Early Colonial
Mesoamerica.”
Hispanic
American
Historical Review 71, no. 3: 477–500.
Mendieta, Jerónimo de. 1980. Historia eclesiástica indiana. Mexico City: Editorial
Porrúa. (Originally written 1596.)
Miller, Mary, and Taube, Karl. 1993. An
Illustrated Dictionary of the Gods and
Symbols of Ancient Mexico and the Maya.
London: Thames and Hudson.
Millon, René. 1955. When Money Grew
on Trees: A Study of Cacao in Ancient
Mesoamerica. Doctoral dissertation,
Columbia University.
Millon, René. 1981. “Teotihuacan: City,
State, and Civilization,” in Archaeology
(Jeremy Sabloff, ed.): 198–243. Supplement
to the Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 1. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Minc, Leah D. 2006. “Monitoring
Regional Market Systems in Prehistory:
Models, Methods, and Metrics.” Journal
of Anthropological Archaeology 25: 82–116.
Minc, Leah D. 2009. “Style and Substance:
Evidence for Regionalism within the
Aztec Market System.” Latin American
Antiquity 20, no. 2: 343–374.
Mintz, Sidney W. 1985. Sweetness and Power.
New York: Penguin Books.
Molina, Alonso de. 1970. Vocabulario en
Lengua Castellana y Mexicana y Mexicana y
Castellana. Mexico City: Editorial Porrua.
(Originally written 1555 and 1571.)
Montes de Oca Vega, Mercedes, Reyes
Equiguas, Salvador, Raby, Dominique,
and Sellen, Adam T. 2003. Cartografía de
tradición Hispanoíndigena. 2 vols. Mexico
City: Universidad Nacional Autónoma de
Mexico/Archivo General de la Nación.
Monzón, Arturo. 1949. El calpulli en la organización social de los tenochca. Mexico City:
Publicaciones del Instituto de Historia,
1st ser., 14.

326

References
Morgan, Lewis Henry. 1878. Ancient Society
or Researches in the Lines of Human
Progress from Savagery through Barbarism to
Civilization. New York.
Motolinía, or Fray Toribio de Benavente.
1969. Historia de los indios de la Nueva
España. Mexico City: Editorial Porrúa.
(Originally written ca. 1536–1543.)
Motolinía, or Fray Toribio de Benavente.
1971. Memoriales o libro de las cosas de
la Nueva España y de los naturals de ella
(Edmundo O’Gorman, ed.). Mexico
City: Universidad Nacional Autónoma
de Mexico, Insituto de Investigaciones
Históricas. (Originally written ca.
1536–1543.)
Mundy, Barbara E. 1996. The Mapping of
New Spain: Indigenous Cartography and
the Maps of the Relaciones Geográficas.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Muñoz Camargo, Diego. 1947. Historia de
Tlaxcala. Mexico City: Publicaciones
del Ateneo Nacional de Ciencias y
Artes de Mexico. (Originally written ca.
1576–1595.)
Navarrete, Federico. 2011. “Writing,
Images, and Time-Space in Aztec
Monuments and Books,” in Their Way
of Writing: Scripts, Signs, and Pictographies
in Pre-Columbian America (Elizabeth Hill
Boone and Gary Urton, eds.): 175–195.
Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.
Neale, Walter C. 1976. Monies in Societies.
San Francisco: Chandler and Sharp.
Neff, Hector, and Hodge, Mary G. 2008.
“Serving Vessel Production at Chalco:
Evidence from Neutron Activation
Analysis,” in El lugar de jade: sociedad
y economía en el antiguo Chalco / Place
of Jade: Society and Economy in Ancient
Chalco (Mary G. Hodge, ed.): 187–226.
Mexico City: Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Nichols, Deborah L. 1994. “The
Organization of Provincial Craft
Production and the Aztec City-State
of Otumba,” in Economies and Polities
in the Aztec Realm (Mary G. Hodge
and Michael E. Smith, eds.): 175–93.
Albany, NY: Institute for Mesoamerican
Studies.
Nichols, Deborah L. 2004. “The Rural and
Urban Landscapes of the Aztec State,” in

Mesoamerican Archaeology (J. A. Hendon
and R. A. Joyce, eds.): 265–295. Oxford:
Blackwell.
Nichols, Deborah L., and Evans, Susan
Toby. 2009. “Aztec Studies.” Ancient
Mesoamerica 20, no. 2: 265–270.
Nichols, Deborah L., McLaughlin,
Mary Jane, and Benton, Maura. 2000.
“Production
Intensification
and
Regional Specialization: Maguey Fibers
and Textiles in the Aztec City-State of
Otumba.” Ancient Mesoamerica 11, no. 2:
267–291.
Nicholson, H. B. 1971. “Religion in PreHispanic Central Mexico,” in Handbook
of Middle American Indians, vol. 10 (G.
Ekholm and I. Bernal, eds.): 395–446.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Nicholson, H. B. 1975. “Middle American
Ethnohistory: An Overview,” in
Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 15 (H. Cline, ed.): 487–505. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Nicholson, H. B. 1992. “The History of
the Codex Mendoza,” in The Codex
Mendoza (Frances F. Berdan and Patricia
Rieff Anawalt, eds.): 1: 1–11. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Nicholson, H. B. 1993. “The Problem of
the Identification of the Central Image
of the Aztec Calendar Stone,” in Current
Topics in Aztec Studies (Alana CordryCollins and Douglas Sharon, eds.): 3–15.
San Diego, CA: San Diego Museum of
Man Papers, no. 30.
Nicholson, H. B. 1997. “Introduction,”
in Primeros Memoriales: Paleography of
Nahuatl Text and English Translation: 3–
14. Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Nuttall, Zelia. 1903. The Book of the Life
of the Ancient Mexicans Containing an
Account of Their Rites and Superstitions.
Part I: Introduction and Facsimile. Berkeley:
University of California Press.
Offner, Jerome A. 1983. Law and Politics in
Aztec Texcoco. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Offner, Jerome A. 1984. “Household
Organization
in
the
Texcocan
Heartland,” in Explorations in Ethnohistory
(H. R. Harvey and Hanns J. Prem, eds.):
127–146. Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press.

327

References
Olivier, Guilhem. 1999. “Los animales en
el mundo prehispánico.” Arqueología
Mexicana 6, no. 35: 4–15.
Olivier, Guilhem. 2003. Mockeries
and Metamorphoses of an Aztec God:
Tezcatlipoca, “Lord of the Smoking Mirror.”
Boulder: University Press of Colorado.
Olivier, Guilhem. 2010. “Los bultos sagrados: identidad fundadora de los pueblos
mesoamericanos.” Arqueología Mexicana
18, no. 106: 53–59.
Olivier, Guilhem, and López Luján,
Leonardo. 2009. “Images of Moctezuma
and His Symbols of Power,” in
Moctezuma: Aztec Ruler (Colin McEwan
and Leonardo Lopez Lujan, eds.): 78–91.
London: British Museum Press.
Olko, Justyna. 2005. Turquoise Diadems and
Staffs of Office.Warsaw: Polish Society for
Latin American Studies.
Olmos, Andrés de. 1972. Arte para aprender la
lengua Mexicana. Guadalajara: Edmundo
Aviña Levy.
Ortiz de Montellano, Bernard R. 1978.
“Aztec Cannibalism: An Ecological
Necessity?” Science 299: 611–617.
Ortiz de Montellano, Bernard R. 1990.
Aztec Medicine, Health and Nutrition.
New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University
Press.
Ortiz de Montellano, Bernard R. 2001.
“Disease, Illness, and Curing,” in
Archaeology of Ancient Mexico and Central
America (Susan Toby Evans and David
L. Webster, eds.): 215–220. New York:
Garland.
Otis Charlton, Cynthia. 1994. “Plebeians
and Patricians: Contrasting Patterns
of Production and Distribution in the
Aztec Figurine and Lapidary Industries,”
in Economies and Polities in the Aztec Realm
(Mary G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith,
eds.): 195–219. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Otis Charlton, Cynthia, Charlton, Thomas
H., and Nichols, Deborah L. 1993.“Aztec
Household-Based Craft Production:
Archaeological Evidence from the CityState of Otumba,” in Prehispanic Domestic
Units in Western Mesoamerica: Studies of
the Household, Compound, and Residence
(Robert S. Santley and Kenneth G.
Hirth, eds.): 147–171. Boca Raton, FL:
CRC Press.

Oviedo y Valdés, Gonzalo Fernández de.
1851–1855. Historia general y natural de las
Indias, islas y tierra firme del Mar Oceano
(José Amador de los Ríos, ed.). 4 vols.
Mexico City.
Parkinson, William A., and Galaty, Michael
L. 2007.“Secondary States in Perspective:
An Integrated Approach to State
Formation in the Prehistoric Aegean.”
American Anthropologist 109: 113–129.
Parrilla Alvarez, Laura. 2003. Jardín
Etnobotánico, Museo de Medicina Tradicional
y Herbolaria. Cuernavaca, Morelos. Mexico
City: INAH.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 1971. Prehistoric Settlement
Patterns in the Texcoco Region, Mexico. Ann
Arbor: Memoirs of the Museum of
Anthropology, University of Michigan,
no. 3.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 1991. “Political
Implications of Prehispanic Chinampa
Agriculture in the Valley of Mexico,” in
Land and Politics in the Valley of Mexico
(H. R. Harvey, ed.): 17–41. Albuquerque:
University of New Mexico Press.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 1996. “Tequesquite and
Ahuauhtli: Rethinking the Prehispanic
Productivity of Lake Texcoco-XaltocánZimpango,” in Arqueología Mesoamericana:
Homenaje a William T. Sanders (A. G.
Mastache, J. Parsons, R. Santley, and M.
Serra, eds.): 1: 439–460. Mexico City:
Instituto Nacional de Antropología e
Historia.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 2002. “Ingeniería
hidráulica prehispánica en Acolhuacan.”
Arqueología Mexicana 10, no. 58: 54–59.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 2006. The Last Pescadores
of Chimalhuacán, Mexico: An Archaeological
Ethnography.Ann Arbor:Anthropological
Papers, Museum of Anthropology,
University of Michigan, no. 96.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 2008a. “Environment
and Rural Economy,” in The Aztec World
(Elizabeth M. Brumfiel and Gary M.
Feinman, eds.): 23–52. New York: Abrams.
Parsons, Jeffrey R. 2008b. Prehispanic
Settlement Patterns in the Northwestern
Valley of Mexico: The Zumpango Region.
Ann Arbor: Memoirs of the Museum of
Anthropology, University of Michigan,
no. 45.
Parsons, Jeffrey R., Brumfiel, Elizabeth,
Parsons, Mary H., and Wilson, David

328

References
J. 1982. Prehispanic Settlement Patterns in
the Southern Valley of Mexico: The ChalcoXochimilco Region. Ann Arbor: Memoirs
of the Museum of Anthropology,
University of Michigan, no. 14.
Parsons, Jeffrey R., and Parsons, Mary H.
1990. Maguey Utilization in Highland
Central Mexico: An Archaeological
Ethnography.Ann Arbor:Anthropological
Papers of the Museum of Anthropology,
University of Michigan, no. 82.
Parsons, Mary H. 1975. “The Distribution
of Late Postclassic Spindle Whorls in the
Valley of Mexico.” American Antiquity 40:
207–215.
Pasztory, Esther. 1983. Aztec Art. New York:
Abrams.
Pasztory, Esther. 1997. Teotihuacan: An
Experiment in Living. Norman: University
of Oklahoma Press.
Peacock, D. P. S. 1982. Pottery in the Roman
World: An Ethnoarchaeological Approach.
New York: Longman.
Phipps, Elena, and Commoner, Lucy.
2006. “Investigation of a Colonial Latin
American Textile,” in Textile Narratives
and Conversations, Textile Society of
America, 10th Biennial Symposium,
Toronto.
PNE. 1905–1906. Papeles de Nueva España
(Francisco de Paso y Troncoso, ed.).
Madrid: Sucesores de Rivandeneyra.
Pohl, John. 2001. “Chichimecatlalli:
Strategies for Cultural and Commercial
Exchange between Mexico and the
American Southwest,” in The Road to
Aztlan (Virginia M. Fields and Victor
Zamudio-Taylor, eds.): 86–101. Los
Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum
of Art.
Pohl, John. 2003. “Royal Marriage and
Confederacy Building among the
Eastern Nahuas, Mixtecs, and Zapotecs,”
in The Postclassic Mesoamerican World
(Michael E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan,
eds.): 243–248. Salt Lake City: University
of Utah Press.
Polanco, Oscar J. 1991. La fauna en el Templo
Mayor. Mexico City: Instituto Nacional
de Antropología e Historia.
Pomar, Juan Bautista. 1891. “Relación de
Tezcoco,” in Nueva colección de documentos para la historia de Mexico (J. García
Icazbalceta, ed.): 3: 1–69. México City:

Imprenta de Francisco Díaz de León.
(Originally written 1582.)
Prem, Hanns J. 1974. Matrícula de
Huexotzinco.
Graz:
Akademische
Druck-u.Verlagsanstalt.
Prem, Hanns J. 2004. “La escritura de los
mexicas.” Arqueología Mexicana 12, no.
70: 40–43.
Quezada Ramírez, Osiris, Valentín
Maldonado, Norma, and Argüelles
Echevarría, Amaranta. 2010.“Taxidermia
y cautiverio de águilas en Tenochtitlan.”
Arqueología Mexicana 18, no. 105: 18–23.
Quiñones Keber, Eloise. 1995. Codex
Telleriano-Remensis. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Relación de Misantla. 1962. Relación de
Misantla por Diego Pérez de Arteaga, 1579.
Jalapa, Mexico: Cuadernos de la Facultad
de Filosofía y Letras 8, Universidad
Veracruzana.
Ricard, Robert. 1966. The Spiritual Conquest
of Mexico (Lesley Byrd Simpson, trans.).
Berkeley: University of California Press.
Rivera Arce, Erika. 1999. “Investigación
reciente sobre plantas medicinales mexicanas.” Arqueología Mexicana 7, no. 39:
54–59.
Robertson, Donald. 1994. Mexican
Manuscript Painting of the Early Colonial
Period:The Metropolitan Schools. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Rojas Rabiela, Teresa. 1984. “Agricultural
Implements in Mesoamerica,” in
Explorations in Ethnohistory (H. R.
Harvey and Hanns J. Prem, eds.): 175–
204. Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press.
Rojas Rabiela, Teresa. 2004. “Las cuencas lacustres del Altiplano Central.”
Arqueología Mexicana 12, no. 68: 20–27.
Román Berrelleza, Juan Alberto. 1987.
“Offering 48 of the Templo Mayor:
A Case of Child Sacrifice,” in The
Aztec Templo Mayor (Elizabeth Hill
Boone, ed.): 131–143. Washington, DC:
Dumbarton Oaks.
Román Berrelleza, Juan Alberto. 1991.
“A Study of Skeletal Materials from
Tlatelolco,” in Aztec Ceremonial
Landscapes (Davíd Carrasco, ed.): 9–19.
Boulder: University Press of Colorado.
Román Berrelleza, Juan Alberto. 2008.
“Health and Disease among the Aztecs,”

329

References
in The Aztec World (Elizabeth M.
Brumfiel and Gary M. Feinman, eds.):
53–65. New York: Abrams.
Román Berrelleza, Juan Alberto, and López
Luján, Leonardo. 1999. “El funeral de un
dignatario mexica.” Arqueología Mexicana
7, no. 40: 36–39.
Ruiz Rivera, César Augusto. 2001. San Andrés
de la Cal: culto a los Señores del Tiempo
en rituales agrarios. Cuernavaca: SUR
Comunicación y Medios, S.A. de C.V.
Sahagún, Bernardino de. 1950–1982.
Florentine Codex: General History of
the Things of New Spain (Arthur J. O.
Anderson and Charles E. Dibble, eds.
and trans.). 12 vols. Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press.
Sahagún, Bernardino de. 1993. Primeros
Memoriales. Facs. ed. Norman: University
of Oklahoma Press.
Sahagún, Bernardino de. 1997. Primeros
Memoriales: Paleography of Nahuatl
Text and English Translation. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Sanders, William T. 1956. “The Central
Mexican Symbiotic Region: A Study
in Prehistoric Settlement Patterns,”
in Prehistoric Settlement Patterns in the
New World (Gordon R. Willey, ed.):
115–127. Viking Fund Publications
in Anthropology, vol. 23. New
York: Wenner-Gren Foundation for
Anthropological Research.
Sanders, William T. 1970. “The Population
of the Teotihuacan Valley, the Basin
of Mexico, and the Central Mexican
Symbiotic Region in the 16th Century,”
in The Teotihuacan Valley Project, Final
Report (William T. Sanders, Anton Kovar,
Thomas H. Charlton, and Richard A.
Diehl, eds.): 385–452. Occasional Papers
in Anthropology, vol. 3. University
Park: Pennsylvania State University,
Department of Anthropology.
Sanders, William T. 1981. “Ecological
Adaptations in the Basin of Mexico:
23,000 B.C. to the Present,” in Supplement
to the Handbook of Middle American Indians,
vol. 1 (Jeremy A. Sabloff, ed.): 147–197.
Austin: University of Texas Press.
Sanders, William T. 1992. “The Population
of the Central Mexican Symbiotic
Region, the Basin of Mexico, and the
Teotihuacan Valley in the Sixteenth

Century,” in The Native Population of
the Americas in 1492 (W. M. Denevan,
ed.): 85–150. Madison: University of
Wisconsin Press.
Sanders, William T. 2004. “The Basin
of Mexico as a Habitat for PreHispanic Farmers,” in The Aztec Empire
(Felipe Solis, ed.): 56–69. New York:
Guggenheim Museum.
Sanders, William T. 2008. “Tenochtitlan in
1519: A Pre-Industrial Megalopolis,” in
The Aztec World (Elizabeth M. Brumfiel
and Gary M. Feinman, eds.): 67–85. New
York: Abrams.
Sanders, William T., Parsons, Jeffrey R.,
and Santley, Robert S. 1979. The Basin of
Mexico: Ecological Processes in the Evolution
of a Civilization. New York: Academic
Press.
Sandstrom, Alan R. 1991. Corn Is Our
Blood: Culture and Ethnic Identity in
a Contemporary Aztec Indian Village.
Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press.
Sandstrom, Alan R., and Berdan, Frances
F. 2008. “Some Finishing Thoughts
and Unfinished Business,” in Ethnic
Identity in Nahua Mesoamerica (Frances F.
Berdan et al.): 204–220. Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press.
Sandstrom,Alan R., and Sandstrom, Pamela
Effrein. 1986. Traditional Papermaking and
Paper Cult Figures of Mexico. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Saville, Marshall H. 1920. The Goldsmith’s Art
in Ancient Mexico. New York: Museum of
the American Indian, Heye Foundation.
Schneider, Jane. 1977. “Was There a
Precapitalist World-System?” Peasant
Studies 6, no. 1: 20–29.
Scholes, France V., and Adams, E. B. 1957.
Información sobre los tributos que los
Indios pagaban a Moctezuma, año de
1554. Documentos para la Historia del
Mexico Colonial, vol. 4. Mexico City.
Schortman, Edward, and Urban, Patricia.
2001. “Interregional Interactions,” in
Archaeology of Ancient Mexico and Central
America: An Encyclopedia (Susan Toby
Evans and David L. Webster, eds.): 365–
371. New York: Garland.
Schroeder, Susan. 1991. Chimalpahin and the
Kingdoms of Chalco. Tucson: University
of Arizona Press.

330

References
Schroeder, Susan. 1992.“The Noblewomen
of Chalco.” Estudios de Cultura Nahuatl
22: 45–86.
Schroeder, Susan, Wood, Stephanie, and
Haskett, Robert. 1997. Indian Women of
Early Mexico. Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press.
Seler, Eduard. 1991. “Magic in Ancient
Mexico.” Labyrinthos 2: 43–47.
Seler, Eduard. 1992. “Ancient Mexican
Attire and Insignia of Social and Military
Rank.” Labyrinthos 3: 3–61.
Sell, Barry D., and Burkhart, Louise M.
2004. Nahuatl Theater, vol. I: Death and
Life in Colonial Nahua Mexico. Norman:
University of Oklahoma Press.
Skoglund, Thanet, Stark, Barbara L., Neff,
Hector, and Glasock, Michael D. 2006.
“Compositional and Stylistic Analysis
of Aztec-Era Ceramics: Provincial
Strategies at the Edge of Empire,
South-Central Veracruz, Mexico.” Latin
American Antiquity 17, no. 4: 541–559.
Smith, Michael E. 1979. “The Aztec
Marketing System and Settlement Pattern
in the Valley of Mexico: A Central Place
Analysis.” American Antiquity 44: 110–124.
Smith, Michael E. 1994a. “Economies
and Polities in Aztec-Period Morelos:
Ethnohistoric Overview,” in Economies
and Polities in the Aztec Realm (Mary
G. Hodge and Michael E. Smith, eds.):
313–348. Albany, NY: Institute for
Mesoamerican Studies.
Smith, Michael E. 1994b. “Social
Complexity in the Aztec Countryside,”
in ArchaeologicalViews from the Countryside:
Village Communities in Early Complex
Societies (Glenn Schwartz and Steven
Falconer, eds.): 143–159. Washington,
DC: Smithsonian Institution Press.
Smith, Michael E. 1996a. “The Aztec Silent
Majority: William T. Sanders and the
Study of the Aztec Peasantry.” Arqueología
Mesoamericana: Homenaje a William T.
Sanders (A. G. Mastache, J. Parsons, R.
Santley, and M. Serra, eds.): 1: 375–386.
Mexico City: Instituto Nacional de
Antropología e Historia.
Smith, Michael E. 1996b. “The Strategic
Provinces,” in Aztec Imperial Strategies
(Frances F. Berdan et al.): 137–150.
Washington, DC: Dumbarton Oaks
Research Library and Collection.

Smith, Michael E. 1997. “Life in the
Provinces of the Aztec Empire.” Scientific
American 277, no. 3: 56–63.
Smith, Michael E. 2002. “Domestic Ritual
at Aztec Provincial Sites in Morelos,” in
Domestic Ritual in Ancient Mesoamerica
(Patricia Plunket, ed.): 93–114. Los
Angeles: UCLA, Cotsen Institute of
Archaeology, Monograph 46.
Smith, Michael E. 2003a. “Aztec CityStates in the Basin of Mexico and
Morelos,” in The Postclassic Mesoamerican
World (Michael E. Smith and Frances
F. Berdan, eds.): 58–60. Salt Lake City:
University of Utah Press.
Smith, Michael E. 2003b. “Small Polities
in Postclassic Mesoamerica,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael
E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.):
35–39. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Smith, Michael E. 2003c. “Economic
Change in Morelos Households,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael
E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.):
249–258. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Smith, Michael E. 2003d. The Aztecs.
Malden, MA: Blackwell.
Smith, Michael E. 2008. Aztec City-State
Capitals. Gainesville: University Press of
Florida.
Smith, Michael E. 2010. “Regional and
Local Market Systems in Aztec-Period
Morelos,” in Archaeological Approaches
to Market Exchange in Ancient Societies
(Christopher P. Garraty and Barbara L.
Stark, eds.): 161–182. Boulder: University
Press of Colorado.
Smith, Michael E. In press a. “Aztecs” in
Oxford Handbook of the Archaeology of
Ritual and Religion. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Smith, Michael E. In press b. “The
Archaeology of Tezcatlipoca.” To appear
in a volume on Tezcatlipoca, edited by
Elizabeth Baquedano.
Smith, Michael E., and Berdan, Frances F.
2003a. “Postclassic Mesoamerica,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael E.
Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.): 3–13.
Salt Lake City: University of Utah Press.
Smith, Michael E., and Berdan, Frances
F. 2003b. “Spatial Structure of the

331

References
Mesoamerican World System,” in The
Postclassic Mesoamerican World (Michael
E. Smith and Frances F. Berdan, eds.):
21–31. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Smith, Michael E., and Berdan, Frances F.,
eds. 2003c. The Postclassic Mesoamerican
World. Salt Lake City: University of Utah
Press.
Smith, Michael E., and Heath-Smith,
Cynthia. 1994. “Rural Economy in Late
Postclassic Morelos: An Archaeological
Study,” in Economies and Polities in the
Aztec Realm (Mary G. Hodge and
Michael E. Smith, eds.): 349–376. Albany,
NY: Institute for Mesoamerican Studies.
Smith, Michael E., Heath-Smith, Cynthia,
and Montiel, Lisa. 1999. “Excavations
of Aztec Urban Houses at Yautepec,
Mexico.” Latin American Antiquity 10,
no. 2: 133–150.
Smith, Michael E., Wharton, Jennifer B.,
and Olson, Jan Marie. 2003.“Aztec Feasts,
Rituals, and Markets,” in The Archaeology
and Politics of Food and Feasting in Early
States and Empires (Tamara L. Bray, ed.):
235–268. New York: Kluwer Academic /
Plenum.
Spence, Michael W. 1985. “Specialized
Production in Rural Aztec Society:
Obsidian Workshops of the Teotihuacan
Valley,” in Contributions to the Archaeology
and Ethnohistory of Greater Mesoamerica
(William J.Folan,ed.):76–125.Carbondale:
Southern Illinois University Press.
Stahle, D. W., Villanueva Díaz, J., Burnette,
D. J., Cerano Paredes, J., Heim Jr., R. R.,
Fye, F. K., Acuña Soto, R., Therrell, M.
D., Cleaveland, M. K., and Stahle, D. K.
2011. “Major Mesoamerican Droughts
of the Past Millennium.” Geophysical
Research Letters 38: L05703.
Stark, Barbara L. 1990.“The Gulf Coast and the
Central Highlands of Mexico: Alternative
Models for Interaction.” Research in Economic
Anthropology 12: 243–285.
Stark, Barbara L., and Garraty, Christopher P.
2010. “Detecting Marketplace Exchange
in Archaeology: A Methodological
Review,” in Archaeological Approaches
to Market Exchange in Ancient Societies
(Christopher P. Garraty and Barbara L.
Stark, eds.): 33–58. Boulder: University
Press of Colorado.

Stark, Barbara L., and Ossa, Alanna.
2010. “Origins and Development of
Mesoamerican Marketplaces: Evidence
from South-Central Veracruz, Mexico,”
in Archaeological Approaches to Market
Exchange in Ancient Societies (Christopher
P. Garraty and Barbara L. Stark, eds.):
99–126. Boulder: University Press of
Colorado.
Stresser-Péan, Guy. 1995. El Códice de
Xicotepec. México City: Fondo de
Cultura Económica.
Tapia, Andrés de. 1963. “The Chronicle of
Andres de Tapia,” in The Conquistadors
(Patricia de Puentes, ed. and trans.): 17–
48. Norman: University of Oklahoma
Press. (Originally written sixteenth
century.)
Tarschys, Daniel. 1988. “Tributes, Tariffs,
Taxes and Trade: The Changing Sources
of Government Revenue.” British Journal
of Political Science 18, no. 1: 1–20.
Taube, Karl A. 2000.“The Turquoise Hearth:
Fire, Self-Sacrifice, and the Central
Mexican Cult of War,” in Mesoamerica’s
Classic Heritage: From Teotihuacan to the
Aztecs (Davíd Carrasco, Lindsay Jones,
and Scott Sessions, eds.): 269–340.
Boulder: University Press of Colorado.
Taube, Karl A. 2001. “The Breath of Life:
The Symbolism ofWind in Mesoamerica
and the American Southwest,” in
The Road to Aztlan: Art From a Mythic
Homeland (Virginia M. Fields and Victor
Zamudio-Taylor, eds.): 102–123. Los
Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum
of Art.
Taube, Karl A. 2004. “Aztec Religion:
Creation, Sacrifice, and Renewal,” in
The Aztec Empire (Felipe Solís, ed.): 168–
177. New York: Guggenheim Museum
Publications.
Taube, Karl A. 2011. “In Search of Paradise:
Religion and Cultural Exchange in
Early Postclassic Mesoamerica.” Paper
presented at the Tercero Congreso
Internacional de Cultura Maya, Mérida,
Yucatán, March.
Tavárez, David. 2011. The Invisible War:
Indigenous Devotions, Discipline, and
Dissent in Colonial Mexico. Stanford, CA:
Stanford University Press.
Therrell, Matthew D., Stahle, David W.,
and Acuña Soto, Rodolfo. 2004. “Aztec

332

References
Drought and the Curse of One Rabbit.”
American Meteorological Society, September
2004: 1263–1272.
Thomas, Hugh. 1993. Conquest: Montezuma,
Cortés, and the Fall of Old Mexico. New
York: Simon and Schuster.
Thompson. J. Eric. 1956. “Notes on the
Use of Cacao in Middle America,” in
Notes on Middle American Archaeology and
Ethnology. Washington, D.C.: Carnegie
Institution of Washington, no. 128.
Torquemada, Juan de. 1969. Monarquía
Indiana. 3 vols. Mexico City: Editorial
Porrúa. (Originally written 1592–1613.)
Townsend, Richard F. 2009a. The Aztecs.
London: Thames and Hudson.
Townsend, Richard F. 2009b. “Moctezuma
and the Renewal of Nature,” in
Moctezuma: Aztec Ruler (Colin McEwan
and Leonardo López Luján, eds.): 124–
143. London: British Museum Press.
Umberger, Emily. 1987.“Antiques, Revivals,
and References to the Past in Aztec Art.”
Res 13: 62–105.
Umberger, Emily. 1996. “Art and Imperial
Strategy in Tenochtitlan,” in Aztec
Imperial Strategies (Frances F. Berdan
et al.): 85–106. Washington, DC:
Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and
Collection.
Umberger, Emily. 2008. “Ethnicity and
Other Identities in the Sculptures of
Tenochtitlan,” in Ethnic Identity in Nahua
Mesoamerica (Frances F. Berdan et al.):
64–104. Salt Lake City: University of
Utah Press.
Valadez Azúa, Raúl. 1999. “Los animales
domésticos.” Arqueología Mexicana 6,
no. 35: 32–39.
Valadez Azúa, Raúl, and Rodríguez Galicia,
Bernardo. 2005. “Faunal Remains from
Xaltocan,” in Production and Power
at Postclassic Xaltocan (Elizabeth M.
Brumfiel, ed.): 233–246. Mexico City:
Instituto Nacional de Antropología e
Historia.
Vargas, Luis Alberto, and Casillas, Leticia
E. 2001. “Nutrition,” in The Oxford
Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican Cultures
(Davíd Carrasco, ed.): 391–393. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Vargas, Victoria D. 2001. “Mesoamerican
Copper Bells in the Pre-Hispanic
Southwestern United States and

Northwestern Mexico,” in The Road to
Aztlan (Virginia M. Fields and Victor
Zamudio-Taylor, eds.): 196–211. Los
Angeles: Los Angeles County Museum
of Art.
Velázquez Castro, Adrián. 1999. Tipología
de los objetos de concha del Templo Mayor
de Tenochtitlan. Mexico City: Instituto
Nacional de Antropología e Historia.
Viesca Treviño, Carlos. 1999. “Usos de
las plantas medicinales mexicanas.”
Arqueología Mexicana 7, no. 39: 30–35.
Von Humboldt, Alexander. 1995. Alexander
von Humboldt: Personal Narrative of a
Journey to the Equinoctial Regions of the
New Continent (Jason Wilson, trans.).
London: Penguin Books. (Originally
published 1814–1825.)
Wallerstein, Immanuel. 1974. The Modern
World-System: Capitalist Agriculture and
the Origins of the European World-Economy
in the Sixteenth Century. New York:
Academic Press.
Warren, J. Benedict. 1973.“An Introductory
Survey of Secular Writings in the
European Tradition on Colonial Middle
America 1503–1818,” in Handbook of
Middle American Indians, vol. 13 (H.
Cline, ed.): 42–137. Austin: University of
Texas Press.
Weigand, Phil C., and García de Weigand,
Acelia. 2001. “A Macroeconomic
Study of the Relationships between
the Ancient Cultures of the American
Southwest and Mesoamerica,” in The
Road to Aztlan (Virginia M. Fields and
Victor Zamudio-Taylor, eds.): 184–
195. Los Angeles: Los Angeles County
Museum of Art.
Weiner, Annette B. 1985. “Inalienable
Wealth.” American Ethnologist 12, no. 2:
210–227.
Weiner, Annette B. 1992. Inalienable
Possessions: The Paradox of Keeping
While Giving. Berkeley: University of
California Press.
Wells, E. Christian. 2006.“Recent Trends in
Theorizing Prehispanic Mesoamerican
Economies.” Journal of Archaeological
Research 14, no. 4: 265–312.
Whitmore, Thomas M. 1992. Disease and
Death in Early Colonial Mexico: Simulating
Amerindian Depopulation. Boulder, CO:
Westview Press.

333

References
Wolf, Eric. 1959. Sons of the Shaking Earth.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Wood, Stephanie. 2003. Transcending Conquest:
Nahua Views of Spanish Colonial Mexico.
Norman: University of Oklahoma Press.
Yoffee, Norman. 2005. Myths of the Archaic
State: Evolution of the Earliest Cities, States,
and Civilizations. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Young, Allen M. 2007. The Chocolate Tree:
A Natural History of Cacao. Gainesville:
University Press of Florida.

Zorita, Alonso de. 1963. Life and Labor
in Ancient Mexico: The Brief and
Summary Relation of the Lords of New
Spain (Benjamin Keen, trans.). New
Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University
Press. (Originally written 1566–1570.)
Zorita, Alonso de. 1994. Life and Labor in
Ancient Mexico: The Brief and Summary
Relation of the Lords of New Spain
(Benjamin Keen, trans.) Norman:
University
of
Oklahoma
Press.
(Originally written 1566–1570.)

INDEX

Acamapichtli (ruler 1372–1391), 177
acculturation, of conquered peoples in Aztec
Empire, 174. See also assimilation
Acolhua, 38
Acolman, 117
Acosta, José de, 10
Acosta-Saignes, Miguel, 134
adhesives, and craft production, 94, 303n11
afterlife, Aztec beliefs about death and,
208–10, 308n23
age: and duties of priests, 235; life cycle and
dynamics of, 199–210. See also children;
elderly
agency theory, and interpretation of Aztec
world, 30, 298n11
agriculture: deities and fertility of, 231; as
fundamental economic activity in Basin
of Mexico, 52–3; and introduction of
domestic animals by Spanish, 288; and
Late Postclassic population surge in Basin
of Mexico, 42–3, 60, 75; technology of
in Late Postclassic Mesoamerica, 74–83.
See also chinampas; gardens; irrigation; land;
maize
Aguilar, Francisco de, 10, 59
Ahuitzotl (ruler 1486–1502), 77, 79, 130,
142–3, 148, 153, 156, 177, 184, 186, 301n36,
305n8, 306n23, 308n26
altepetl. See city-state
Alva Ixtlilxochitl, Fernando de, 6, 13, 55, 60,
166, 171
Alvarado Tezozomoc, Fernando, 10, 12
amber, 122, 297n5
Amecamecan (city-state), 138, 305n4
Anderson, Arthur J. O., 109, 282, 302n5
animals: classification of by Aztecs, 84;
introduction of domestic by Spanish, 288;
and nonagricultural sources of food, 86.
See also dogs

Antiquities of Mexico (Lord
Kingsborough1831–48), 9
aqueducts, and irrigation, 77, 78–9
archaeology: and sources of information
on Aztec world, 15, 20–3; and evidence
for marketplaces, 298n12, 304n27; and
evidence for ritual behavior, 215–16;
and human remains, 22–3; and material
objects, 16–20; and political structure of
Tlaxcallan, 278–9; and reconstruction
of indigenous, pre-Spanish
populations, 60–1
architecture, and archaeology as source
of information on Aztec world,
15. See also aqueducts; housing and
households; monuments; palaces;
platforms
art: and material objects as archaeological
source of information on Aztec world,
16; multiple interpretations of, 216; and
murals, 298n13; in service of religion and
state, 252–8. See also sculpture
artisans: calpolli and households of, 107,
109; intermediate position of in
social structure, 185, 186, 188–9; and
Motecuzhzoma Xocoyotzin, 109, 183, 189,
310n27; resettlement of near palaces, 108.
See also craft production; featherworking;
spinning and weaving
assimilation: and conquered peoples in Aztec
Empire, 174; and Spanish colonial policies,
285, 289
astrological handbook (tonalpohualli), 182–3,
199, 214. See also calendars
astronomy, and solar calendar, 218
Atamalcualiztli (ceremony), 238
Atonco (city-state), 130
Atotoztli (possible ruler), 144
Ávila López, Raúl, 80

335

336

Index
Axayacatl (ruler 1468–1481), 142, 145, 146,
148, 157, 158, 159, 166, 300n13, 305n8
axes, of copper or bronze, 124, 127, 302n42
Ayala, Don Gabriel de, 55
Ayerza, Jr., Ricardo, 71
Azcapotzalco (city-state), 41, 107, 117,
139, 305n5
Aztec(s): agricultural techniques and
technology of, 74–83; archaeological
record as source of information on,
15–23; and arts in service of religion and
state, 252–8; calendars and ceremonial
life of, 216–19; city-state in life of,
135–8; commercial exchange and trade
by, 113–29; and cosmology, 219–29; and
craft production, 90–113; and cultural
responses to Spanish pressure, 277–93; and
demography at time of Spanish contact,
57–62; and diet, 70–2; and environment of
Basin of Mexico, 49–56; ethnography as
source of information on, 23; family and
daily life of, 191–214; historical documents
in Nahuatl as sources of information on,
11–15; historical documents in Spanish as
sources of information on, 9–11, 12–15;
and houses of commoners and elites,
63–70; hybrid nature of culture, 37–42;
and medicine, 246–51; pictorial codices as
sources of information on, 5–9; precedents
for in Mesoamerica, 33–6, 299n1; regional
merchants and trade by, 129–32; religion
and gods of, 229–36; religious rituals
and ceremonies of, 236–46; response of
to challenges of Mesoamerican setting,
42–4; social life of, 177–91; spinning and
weaving as domestic activities of, 72–4;
theoretical approaches to interpretations
of world of, 25–30, 259, 268–77; use of
term, xvii, 26; warfare and warrior regalia
as form of wealth, 260–8. See also Aztec
Empire
Aztec Empire: and conquest states, 138;
economic relations with groups beyond
political borders of, 56; geographic extent
of, 28; impact of on conquered peoples,
30; perspective of conquered peoples on,
173–5; political dynamics of, 155–8; trade
and expansion of, 133–4; tribute and
financing of, 162–73; use of term, xvii, 26;
and wars, 158–61. See also Aztec(s); Triple
Alliance
backstrap looms, 22, 23, 24–5, 298n20,
301n28, 302n5. See also spinning and
weaving
ballcourts, 299n7

Bandelier, Adolf, 26
Barber, Russell J., 20
bargaining and barter, in marketplaces,
123–8, 304n35
bark beaters, 23
Barlow, Robert, 28
Basin of Mexico: and confederations of
city-states, 138; environment of, 50, 52, 53;
epidemic diseases and loss of population
in, 59, 247, 281–2, 311n16, 311n20–1;
market integration in, 118, 120; number
of city-states in, 136; and population
estimates for 1519, 58; urban specialized
marketplaces in, 117–18
Basin of Mexico survey project, 27
beads, stone and shell, 124, 127
beans, and Aztec diet, 70
Benavente, Toribio de. See Motolinía
Berdan, Frances F., 20, 21, 29, 33, 44, 45,
111, 179, 181, 184, 198, 203, 211, 218, 233,
243, 271, 276, 281, 288, 297n1, 308n18,
309n9, 310n6
biases, in documentary record, 13
birds. See featherworking; water
Blanton, Richard, 27, 120, 303n15
Bodleian Library (Oxford), 9
books, and arts in service of religion and
state, 252–5. See also pictorial codices;
writing
Boone, Elizabeth Hill, 174, 252, 310n24
Broda, Johanna, 309n11
Brumfiel, Elizabeth M., 99, 103, 206, 299n1,
303n13, 303n22
Burkhart, Louise, 207, 290
burials, and funeral rituals, 210, 308n27.
See also human remains
Bye, Robert, 251
cacao beans: cheating and fraud in marketplace, 211–12; as means of exchange, 124,
125–7, 128; as tribute, 164–5, 169
calendar(s): and Aztec ceremonial life, 216–
19, 226–8, 239, 308n1; and continuation
of rituals under Spanish rule, 291; and
gods, 230
Calendar Stone, survival of, 16–17
Calixtlahuaca, 68
calmil (house garden), 81
Calnek, Edward E., 80–1, 179, 300n14
calpolli (neighborhoods): and households of
artisans, 107, 109; kinship as organizing
principle for, 182; and structure of citystate, 136
Camaxtli (god), 184, 233–4, 309n6.
See also Mixcoatl
canals, and irrigation, 76, 77

337

Index
cannibalism, and human sacrifice, 239–43,
309n17
canoes, and transport, 114
Carmack, Robert M., 270
Carrasco, Davíd, 229, 309n11–12
Carrasco, Pedro, 137, 140, 182, 195
Casas, Bartolomé de las, 298n14
caste, and Aztec social structure, 177, 189
causality, and interpretation of Aztec
world, 29–30
caves, and Aztec worldview, 84, 309n8
Cempoallan (province), 173, 175, 278, 280
censers, and incense, 236, 244
Centeotl (god), 233
central Mexico: environment of plateaus,
53, 55, 57; provincial and extra-empire
marketplaces in, 120–2; and Triple
Alliance, 140
ceremonies: and calendars, 216–19; and
children, 308n17; and gods, 236–46; roles
of commoners in, 184; and syncretism
of Aztec and Spanish religions, 290.
See also New Fire ceremony; rituals
Chalchiutlicue (goddess), 85, 136, 221,
224, 232
Chalco (province), 60, 138, 140, 170,
302n39, 305n4
Chalco, Lake, 50, 80, 87
Chance, John K., 30, 307n40
Chantico (goddess), 263, 310n4
Chapman, Anne, 134, 276
Chapultepec aqueduct (Tenochtitlan), 78–9
Charles I (King of Spain), 8
Charlton, Thomas H., 111
Chase, Arlen F., 306n20
Chávez Balderas, Ximena, 210, 308n28
Chevalier, Jacques S., 309n21
Chichimec: and Aztec as hybrid culture,
37–42; and Aztec religious life, 223–4; and
subjective nature of ethnicity in Aztec
culture, 45
Chicomexochitl (god), 291, 292–3
Chiconautla (city-state), 68, 69, 72
children: birth and naming of, 199–200;
and ceremonies, 308n17; diet of, 71; and
education, 200–5, 211, 307–8n13–16;
evidence for health from skeletal
and dental remains in archaeological
record, 250
chiles, and Aztec diet, 70
Chimalpahin (author), 6, 11, 13, 55, 144
Chimalpopoca (ruler 1415–1426), 145
chinampas, 41, 43, 52, 79–81
Cholula (city-state), 106, 131, 234, 271,
276, 299n8
Cihuacoatl (goddess), 208

Cihuatecpan (city-state), 63, 68, 69, 72, 82,
110, 111, 301n30
city-state (altepetl): arts in service of religion
and, 252–8; confederations of, 138; and
control of land, 147; and craft production,
106–7; and ethnicity in Mesoamerica, 44;
and political strategies of empire, 170–1;
role of in Aztec life, 135–8; and Spanish
imperial administration, 280, 282; and
Triple Alliance, 139–41. See also political
organization
class: and distinction between nobles and
commoners, 177; and structure of Aztec
society, 185, 189. See also commoners; elites
Classical Nahuatl, xix
Clavijero, Francisco J., 125
Clendinnen, Inga, 201
climate, and agriculture in Basin of Mexico,
75. See also natural disasters
clothing: and cloaks as means of exchange,
124, 127; and cloth production during
Spanish colonial period, 286–7; and
costumes of gods, 237; and craft
specialization, 106; and distinction
between nobles and commoners, 72–4,
178, 301n27; and trade in cotton, 304n25;
as tribute, 270, 306n30–1. See also spinning
and weaving
Coatepec (mountain), 222–3
Coates, Wayne, 71
Coatlan (city-state), 174, 184, 271
Coatlicue (goddess), 222
Coayxtlahuacan (city-state), 122
cochineal dye, 285
Codex Azcatitlan, 254
Codex Chimalpopoca, 11, 55
Codex en Cruz, 55, 255
Codex Magliabechiano, 310
Codex Mendoza: and Aztec writing, 254; on
conquests of Axayacatl, 157; on diet of
children, 71; on education of children,
203, 303n10, 307n15; and provinces, 171;
on rewards for warriors, 262; on ritual
calendar, 308n1; structure of, 297n3;
survival of, 8–9; on tribute, 165, 166,
306n30; on weaving, 25
Codex Telleriano-Remensis, 55, 241, 255, 310n9
Códice Aubin, 55
Códice de Huichapan, 55
Códice de Xicotepec, 13
codices. See pictorial codices; writing
Colhuacan (city-state), 38, 41
colonial period: and administrative records
as sources of information on Aztec world,
12; Aztec cultural responses to pressures
of Spanish rule, 277–93; and estimates of

338

Index
colonial period: and administrative records as
sources of information on Aztec world
population, 59; and pictorial codices, 6–7.
See also New Spain; Spain
commoners: clothing of, 72–4, 178, 301n27;
depictions of in codices, 307n1; and
housing, 63–7; and punishments for
crime, 212–13; and social life, 180–4; and
Spanish colonial administration, 284–6
complexity, and interpretations of Aztec
world, 25–6, 30, 259
concentration, of craft production, 104–8
confederations, of city-states, 138.
See also Chalco
congregación, Spanish policy of, 281
conjurers, and magic, 245–6
consonants, and Nahuatl pronunciation
guide, xx
context, and organization of craft
production, 108–13
cooking methods, and preparation of
food, 71
copper bells, 124, 127, 299n6
core, and world systems theory, 269–71
Cortés, Hernán: on Chapultepec aqueduct,
79; on craft production, 94; and
description of Lake Texcoco, 77; and
estimates of population, 59; letters of as
source of information on Aztec world,
9–10; on marketplaces and trade, 115–16,
126, 304n34; on material objects, 16, 20;
and military campaign against Aztec
Empire, 279–80, 310n1
cosmology, dynamics and structure of Aztec,
219–29
Costin, Cathy Lynne, 90
cotton: and armor, 306n25–6; and clothing
of elites, 72, 74; and craft production, 99,
104, 106, 111–12; markets and trade in,
303–4n24–5. See also clothing; spinning
and weaving
courtyards: and housing of commoners, 63;
and housing of elites, 67
Coyoacan (city-state), 95, 107, 118, 130,
173, 181
Coyolxauhqui (goddess), 38, 39,
222, 223
craft production: concentration of, 104–8;
diversity of, 90–7; organization and
context of, 108–13; strategies and
decisions in, 98–9. See also featherworking;
luxury goods; pottery; spinning and
weaving
crime: and enslavement, 190; punishments
for, 211–14
Crónica mexicayotl (Alvarado Tezozomoc), 12

Cuauhnahuac (province), 172
Cuauhtemoc (ruler 1520–1525), 145
Cuauhtencoztli (poet), 256
Cuauhtitlan (city-state), 76–7, 107, 118,
137, 310n6
Cuetlaxtlan (province), 174–5, 271, 311n21
Cuitlahuac (ruler 1520), 145
Culhuacan (city-state), 79
cultural ecological model, 29
culture: and Aztec responses to Spanish
pressure in colonial period, 277–93; and
definition of Mesoamerica as culture
area, 31–2; ethnicity and diversity of in
Mesoamerica, 44–6; hybrid nature of
Aztec, 37–42
dancing, and religious ceremonies, 255, 256
death: and Aztec beliefs about life and
afterlife, 208–10, 308n23; 308n28; ; and
death penalty as punishment for crime,
212–13; and duality principle, 220, 222;
human sacrifice and cycle between life
and, 242. See also sacrifice
demography: epidemic diseases and loss of
population in Basin of Mexico, 59, 247,
281–2, 311n16, 311n20–1; and estimates
of Aztec population at time of Spanish
contact, 57–62, 300n7; impact of human
sacrifice on, 243; and Late Postclassic
population surge in Basin of Mexico,
42–3, 60, 75, 300n12. See also migrations
Díaz del Castillo, Bernal, 9–10, 59, 108,
300n8, 302n41–2, 304n34, 305n10
Diel, Lori Boornazian, 140, 154, 174
diet: of commoners and elites, 70–1; and
fasting, 309n14; and health, 250; and
theories about ritual cannibalism, 242–3.
See also agriculture; feasting; food
digging sticks (uitzoctlí) , 82–3
diplomacy, and exercise of power by
rulers, 154–5
diversity: of craft production, 90–7; as theme
in interpretation of Aztec world, 26–8, 30
divination, and magic, 219, 245–6
dogs, 117, 308n25
Doolittle, William E., 76, 79
drainage ditches, and irrigation, 77, 79
dualism: and impact of Spanish on Aztec
religion, 289–90; principle of in Aztec
cosmology, 220, 222
Durán, Fray Diego: on clothing of priests,
237; on construction of aqueducts, 77;
on cosmology, 225; on craft production,
94–5; on funerals, 308n26; and historical
documents as sources of information on
Aztec world, 10; on human sacrifice, 241;

339

Index
on marketplaces, 117, 121, 123; on military
and warfare, 161, 184, 262, 263, 264–5,
266, 267, 278, 305n13, 306n25; on naming
of children, 200; on natural disasters in
Basin of Mexico, 55; on nature in Aztec
worldview, 85; on nobles, 177; on oral
expression, 256; and pictorial codices, 5–6;
on provinces, 171; on rulers, 149, 150, 153,
264; on Spanish conquest of Tenochtitlan,
277; on tribute, 156, 165
Dürer, Albrecht, 16
dynamics: of age in life cycle, 199–210;
building of empire and political, 155–75;
marriage rules and household, 194–8; as
theme in interpretation of Aztec world,
29–30, 259
eclipses, 218
economics: and poverty in Aztec world,
190; tribute and finance of Aztec Empire,
162–73; and warrior regalia as form of
wealth, 260–8. See also markets; trade and
trade networks
Edelmira, Linares, 251
education: of children, 200–5, 303n10,
307–8n13–16; of priests, 234
ego-centered, Aztec kinship relations
as, 191–2
Ehecatl (god), 221, 234. See also Quetzalcoatl
elderly, defined roles of in Aztec
society, 207–8
elites: and clothing, 72–4, 178, 301n27; and
control of books, 253; depictions of in
codices, 307n1; display and use of precious
materials by, 91, 272; and houses in Basin
of Mexico, 67–70; and inheritance of
titles, 194; marriage and polygyny, 195;
and political strategies of Aztec Empire,
171; and punishments for crime, 212–13;
roles of in Spanish colonial period, 282–4;
and social life, 177–80
encomienda, altepetl as basis for, 281, 282
environment: and features of Aztec world,
49–56; and natural world in Aztec
worldview, 84–5, 230, 247; and tribute
assessments, 163–4
epidemic diseases, impact of on population
of Basin of Mexico, 59, 247, 281–2,
311n16, 311n20–1
ethnicity: and altepetls under Spanish rule,
280–1; and biases in documentary record,
13; and craft specialization, 106; cultural
and linguistic diversity in Mesoamerica,
44–6; and provinces, 173
ethnography, as source of information on
Aztec world, 23

ethnohistory and ethnohistoric research:
and diversity of craft production, 91, 94;
and domestic rituals, 244; and estimates
for population of Basin of Mexico, 58;
and health, 250; and political structure of
Tlaxcallan, 278–9; and regional variation
as theme in Aztec studies, 27–8; and
sources of information on Aztec world,
14–15; sources of on Mesoamerica, 297n1.
See also history
Evans, Susan, 69, 82, 300n11
exotic goods, and world systems theory in
Aztec context, 273–5. See also luxury goods
Fabiola Guzmán, Ana, 302n48
fallowing, and agricultural techniques, 82,
302n40
family: and inheritance, 193–4; and
kinship rules, 191–3; marriage rules
and household dynamics, 194–8.
See also children
Fargher, Lane F., 138, 278, 279
feasting: and exercise of power by rulers,
152, 153, 171; and potlatches of Northwest
coast Native Americans, 309n18; and
social position of merchants, 187, 188
featherworking, 21, 100–2, 188–9, 307n14
Feinman, Gary M., 90
fertility: religion and deities of, 231, 232–3;
and warfare in Aztec worldview, 225
fertilizers, and agricultural techniques, 82
fish, as source of food, 86
Florentine Codex, 7, 13, 254, 297n6.
See also Sahagún, Bernardino de
flowery wars, 158, 278
food: and military supplies, 160–1;
nonagricultural sources of, 83–8.
See also agriculture; diet; feasting
France (French), and Codex Mendoza, 9
Frank, Andre G., 268
“frontier strategy,” of Aztec Empire, 171
funeral rituals, 209–10, 308n26
Galaty, Michael L., 271
gambling, 190
gardens, and households, 81–2
Garraty, Christopher P., 62, 114, 121, 128
Gasco, Janine, 169, 276
Gelb, I. J., 26
gender: and differences in kin terminologies,
193; and education of children, 202–3,
303n10, 307n14; and naming of children,
199; and roles in adulthood, 205–8.
See also women
genealogy, of royal family of
Tenochtitlan, 145

340

Index
geography, and ecological zones in Aztec
world, 51–2
Gibson, Charles, 26, 58, 107, 137, 282
gift giving, by rulers, 153–4, 171,
264–5, 310n6
glottal stop, in Nahuatl, xx
greenstone, 122
guayaba (Psidium guajava), 251
guilds: and craft production, 109; and
professional merchants, 187
Guzmán, Don Juan de, 108–9
Hakluyt, Richard, 9
Handbook of Middle American Indians
(1973–1975), 297n1
Harner, Michael, 241, 242, 243
Harris, Marvin, 242
Harvey, H. R., 28
Haskett, Robert, 283
Hassig, Ross, 114
hearths: and housing of commoners, 65; and
religious importance of fire, 231
Heath-Smith, Cynthia, 169, 300n12
Hernández, Francisco, 10, 85, 86, 248, 302n46
heterogeneity, acquisition of food or
necessities and theme of, 62
Hicks, Frederic, 62, 189, 304n26
Hirth, Kenneth G., 104, 108, 301n38, 303n14,
304n27
historical documents: and depictions of elites
and commoners, 307n1; in Nahuatl as
sources of information on Aztec world,
11–15; and natural disasters in Basin of
Mexico, 54; in Spanish as sources of
information on Aztec world, 9–11, 12–15
history: of Aztec migrations prior to
founding of Tenochtitlan, 38–9; ethnicity
in Mesoamerica and shared, 44–5;
and events leading to Aztec imperial
dominance, 40–1; of militarism in
Mesoamerica, 156; and religious life of
Aztecs, 223–5. See also ethnohistory
and ethnohistoric research; historical
documents
Hodge, Mary G., 137, 303n15,
304–5n1, 305n6
hoes (uictlí), 82–3
Hohokam (Arizona), 299n7
housing and households: of commoners,
63–7; and craft production, 98–9, 102;
and distinctions between nobles and
commoners, 178, 183; and domestic
rituals or offerings, 243–4, 311n32; of
elites, 67–70; and gardens, 81–2; Nahuatl
terms for, 300n16; size of in early colonial
period, 300n11. See also palaces

Huaxacac (city-state), 173
Huaxtepec (province), 172
Huexotla (city-state), 61, 95, 98, 103, 121, 131
Huexotzinco (city-state), 96, 154–5, 175, 271
Huitzilihuitl (ruler 1391–1415), 145
Huitzilopochtli (god), 38, 40, 222, 223, 224,
233, 234, 237
human remains, and archaeological record
as source of information on Aztec world,
22–3, 250. See also burials; death; sacrifice
Icpatepeque (city-state), 122
ideographs, and Aztec writing, 253
inheritance: and kinship rules, 193–4; of
warrior regalia, 266
insects, as source of food, 86–7
intensity, of craft production, 99–104
interactions, and interpretation of Aztec
world, 28–9, 30
intermittent crafting, concept of, 104
irrigation, and Aztec agriculture, 76–9,
301n34–7. See also aqueducts; chinampas
Itzcoatl (ruler 1426–1440), 140–1, 145, 177,
253, 305n8, 307n10
Itzocan (city-state), 117
Ixtapalapan (city-state), 77
Ixtapaluca Viejo (city-state), 63
Ixtepexi (city-state), 271
Johnson, Matthew, 15
jugglers, and magic, 245–6
Karttunen, Frances, 311n28
Kellogg, Susan, 11, 193, 206
Kepecs, Susan, 268
kinship: family formation and rules of,
191–3; as organizing principle for calpolli,
182; and postmarital residence, 196, 197
Kirchhoff, Paul, 31, 32
Klein, Cecelia F., 232, 237
Klor de Alva, J. Jorge, 312n33
Kohl, Philip, 268
labor: male-female division of, 206; as marketable commodity, 113; rulers and control of, 147–8, 150, 300n13; and tribute in
form of service, 168
Laboratory for Ancient Materials Analysis
(California State University, San
Bernardino), 94
lakes: and chinampas in Basin of Mexico, 8,
80, 301–2n3; and environment of Basin of
Mexico, 50, 52. See also Chalco; Texcoco;
Zumpango
land: and cacao production, 169; control
of by rulers, 147–8, 150; and distinctions

341

Index
between nobles and commoners, 183;
exclusion of from commercial exchange,
113, 304n26; and inheritance, 193; warfare
and allocation of, 305n13
landscapes, and environmental zones of
Aztec world, 49
language: ethnicity and diversity of in
Mesoamerica, 44–6; and ethnographic
sources of information on Aztec world,
23. See also Nahuatl
Late Postclassic: and population surge in
Basin of Mexico, 42–3; use of term, xviii
LeClair, Edward E., 125
Legend of the Suns, 215
Lekson, Stephen H., 299n6
León-Portilla, Miguel, 12, 256
Lewis, Oscar, 301n25
life: and beliefs about death and afterlife,
208–10; and duality principle, 220, 222;
human sacrifice and cycle between death
and, 242
life cycle, and dynamics of age, 199–210
living standards, and distinction between
nobles and commoners, 183
local variation, as theme in Aztec studies, 27
Lockhart, James, xix, 147, 180, 186, 193, 282,
283, 285, 290, 302n3
López Austin, Alfredo, 208, 209, 210, 229, 237,
299n9, 303n16, 308n22, 309n12
López Luján, Leonardo, 18, 205, 210, 299n9,
306n21
luxury goods: control of as symbols by elites
and rulers, 150–1, 306–7n36; and craft
production, 92–4, 110; trade and imperial
expansion, 133; and world systems
theory, 271–2. See also amber; artisans;
featherworking; greenstone; obsidian;
pottery; turquoise
macroregional approach, to Mesoamerica as
culture area, 32
Macuilxochitl (god), 212, 233
Madsen, William, 290
magic, and divination, 245–6
maguey, 112; and Aztec diet, 70, 72; and
clothing of Aztec commoners, 72, 74; and
craft production, 104, 110–11, 301n32; as
medicinal plant, 251
maize: as basis of Aztec diet, 70–1; and gods,
233; preparation of, 301n25
Malinalxochitl (goddess), 38
manos, 22, 298n20
Manzanilla, Linda, 34
markets and marketplaces: and
archaeological record, 298n12, 304n27;
cheating and fraud in, 211–12; and craft

production in Basin of Mexico, 91, 94–5,
108, 303n19; and slavery, 191, 304n30;
and solar calendar, 216; and trade in
Aztec world, 114–28, 272–7, 304n33.
See also merchants; Tlatelolco; trade and
trade networks
marriage: and Aztec establishment of
political legitimacy in Basin of Mexico,
41; and elite practice of polygyny, 179,
184, 186; and exercise of power by rulers,
154; and family life, 194–8; and political
strategies of Aztec Empire, 171; and
weddings, 205
material objects: and archaeology as source
of information on Aztec world, 16–17,
20; introduction of by Spanish, 286–8;
and manufactured objects as tribute, 164.
See also luxury goods; tools
Matos Moctezuma, Eduardo, 18, 300n7,
306n21
Matrícula de Tributos, 5, 156, 165, 166, 171, 254,
297n2–3, 297n5, 306n30
Maya: merchants and trade with Aztec
Empire, 131, 275; relations of with Aztec
Empire, 56
Mayahuel (goddess), 233
McAnany, Patricia, 243
medicine, as empirical and applied science
in Aztec world, 246–51. See also epidemic
diseases; midwives; plants
Megged, Amos, 285
Mendieta, Jerónimo de, 10
Mendoza, Antonio, 9
merchants (pochteca): and Aztec imperial
expansion, 133–4, 159; and integration of
economy, 276; intermediate position of
in social structure, 185, 186–7, 188; and
prestige goods, 272; and regional trade,
129–32, 304n38; and warrior regalia, 263;
See also trade and trade networks
Mesoamerica: and calendars, 216; and
conquest states before Aztec Empire,
155; cores and peripheries of, 269; as a
culture area, 31–3; ethnicity and cultural
or linguistic diversity in, 44–6; history of
militarism in, 156; and human sacrifice,
240, 309n17; merging of Chichimecs
and Toltecs with Mexica, 37–42; and
precedents for Aztecs, 33–6; responses of
Aztecs to challenges of Late Postclassic
period in, 42–4; sources of ethnohistory
on, 297n1; use of term, xvii–xviii; world
systems theory and integration of,
275; and worship of Quetzalcoatl, 234.
See also Basin of Mexico; central Mexico;
Pacific coastal regions

342

Index
metates, 23, 298n14
Mexica, use of term, xvii
Mexicaltzinco (city-state), 63
Mexico City. See Tenochtitlan
microenvironments, in Basin of Mexico, 52–3
Mictecacihuatl (goddess), 208, 220
Mictlan (underworld), 209
Mictlantecuhtli (god), 208, 220, 234
midwives, 199, 225, 251
migrations: of conquered peoples from Aztec
Empire, 175; and growth of population
in Late Postclassic Basin of Mexico, 60;
and historical sources on early history of
Mexica, 38–9
Mihuatlan (client state), 130
Millon, René, 124
Minc, Leah D., 118, 120
Mintz, Sidney W., 70
Misantla (city-state), 111
Mixcoatl (god), 224, 233–4, 309n7.
See also Camaxtli
Mixtecs, and craft production, 106
mnemonic devices, and written images, 255
Molina, Alonso de, 141
money, and marketplaces, 123–8.
See also bargaining and barter;
cacao beans
monuments, and sculpture, 257–8
Monzón, Arturo, 303n16
Moquihuix (ruler of Tlatelolco 1467–1473),
158–9, 254–5
Morelos (modern state): and craft
production, 96, 98; and difference
between noble and commoner
houses, 183; and domestic rituals, 244;
environment of, 55; excavations of
commoner houses in, 63–4; status of as
province, 171–2
Morgan, Lewis Henry, 25–6
Motolinía, 6, 10, 123, 125
Motecuhzoma Ilhuicamina (ruler 1440–
1468), 60, 141, 145, 166, 177, 178
Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin (ruler
1502–1520): and artisans, 109, 183, 189,
310n27; and control of labor, 149–50; and
differences of Aztecs from predecessors,
43–4; and distinction between nobles
and commoners, 177; and exercise of
power, 154–5, 306n23; genealogy of, 145;
personality of, 142, 143; and religious
offerings, 238; and ritual calendar,
308n1; and soothsayers, 219; tribute and
coronation of, 165; variants in spelling of,
xx; and warfare, 305n8, 310n6
mountains, and Aztec worldview, 84
multicrafting, concept of, 104

multicropping, and agricultural
techniques, 82
Muñoz Camargo, Diego, 11
Museo Nacional de Antropología (Mexico
City), 18, 19
museum collections, ritual objects in, 216
musical instruments, 239. See also dancing;
songs
nahualli (animal spirit companions), 25
Nahuatl: contemporary speakers of,
23; emulation, appropriation, and
assimilation in Aztec Empire, 174; guide
to pronunciation of, xix-xx; and historical
documents as sources of information on
Aztec world, 11–12; and kin terms, 192;
and resilience of Aztec/Nahua cultural
traditions, 292; and terms for housing,
300n16; and use of term “Nahua” after
Spanish conquest, 281
names and naming: of children, 199–200;
combination of Nahua and Spanish in
colonial period, 283; of women, 307n12
Nanahuatzin (god), 221
Nappa Tecuhtli (god), 184
natural disasters: and drought in central
Mexico in mid-1400s, 190; and
environment of Basin of Mexico,
52–3, 54–5
natural resources, in Aztec world, 53, 56.
See also raw materials
nature and natural world, in Aztec
worldview, 84–5, 230, 247
Navarrete, Federico, 255
Neale, Walter C., 124
New Fire ceremony, 231, 238, 308n1
New Spain, estimates for population of, 57.
See also colonial period
Nezahualcoyotl (ruler of Texcoco 1418–
1472), 140–1, 166, 180
Nezahualpilli (ruler of Texcoco 1472–1515),
68, 179–80, 194, 195, 196, 218, 300n19
Nichols, Deborah L., 27, 300n7
Nicholson, H. B., xvii, 9, 216
nobles. See elites
obsidian, 103, 104, 277, 303n18
ocean, and Aztec worldview, 84
Offner, Jerome A., 186
Olivier, Guilhem, 237
Olko, Justyna, 263, 310n2, 310n5
Olmos, Andrés de, 10, 298n8
Ometeotl (god), 220, 230
Opochtli (god), 184
oral traditions: and arts in service of religion
and state, 255–7; as sources of information

343

Index
on Aztec world, 12. See also history;
poetry; songs
organization, and context of craft
production, 108–13
Otis Charlton, Cynthia, 302n7
Otomí (ethnic group), 13, 106, 200
Otompan (city-state), 72, 95, 96, 98, 104, 109,
110, 111, 117, 120, 311n20
Oviedo de Valdés, Gonzalo Fernández de,
298n14
oztomeca. See merchants; spies
Pacific coastal regions, and Aztec Empire, 156
palaces: and housing of elites in Basin of
Mexico, 67–70; and land endowments,
148; resettlement of artisans near, 108; and
ruler of Texcoco, 300n19; and social status
of rulers, 151
Papantla (town), 166, 172
parallelism, and concept of gender in Aztec
world, 206–7
Parsons, Jeffrey R., 52, 80, 83, 86, 103, 111
Parsons, Mary H., 111
patronage, and organization of craft
production, 108–9
Peacock, D. P. S., 98
Peregrine, Peter, 299n6
peripheries, and world systems theory,
269–71
perishability, of material objects in
archaeological record, 21
personalities, of rulers, 142–3
philosophy, and oral expression, 255–7
phoneticism, and Aztec writing, 253
pictorial codices: and Aztec writing, 253,
309–10n24; and backstrap loom, 24; as
sources of information on Aztec world,
5–9, 13
plants: classification of by Aztecs, 84;
medicinal uses of, 251, 302n45, 309n22;
and nonagricultural sources of food, 86.
See also cotton; maguey; maize
platforms, and elite houses or palaces, 68
plays, with Christian themes, 290–1
pochteca. See merchants
poetry: and oral traditions, 256; as sources of
information on Aztec world, 12
Polaco, Oscar J., 302n48
political economy, and approaches to
interpretation of Aztec world, 29–30
political organization: and challenges in
Basin of Mexico in Late Postclassic
period, 43–4; and dynamics of empire
building, 155–75; and human sacrifice,
241–2; legitimacy of Mexica and

ceremonial use or display of legendary
and foreign elements, 36; role of
merchants in imperial expansion, 133;
roles of rulers and emperors, 141–55; and
sculptural themes, 257–8; structure of in
Tlaxcallan, 278–9; and Triple Alliance,
139–41; use and display of precious
materials by state, 91. See also city-state;
rulers and rulerships
Pomar, Juan Bautista, 11
pottery: and craft specialization, 106;
and exotic goods, 273–5; and market
integration in Basin of Mexico, 118, 120;
production of polychrome in Texcoco, 103
poverty, in Aztec world, 190
power: establishment and maintenance of by
rulers, 146–7; exercise of by rulers, 152–5;
and social status, 183–4
Prem, Hanns J., 255
prestige goods, and luxuries in Aztec
world, 272
prevention, and medicine, 250
priests and priestesses: clothing and costumes
of, 237; and gods, 234–6; social status
of, 179; use and display of precious
materials, 91
Primeros Memoriales, 7
“private” and “public” spheres, and
gender, 205–6
processions, religious, 290
production, craft specialization and process
of, 110–13
provinces, of Aztec Empire, 171–3
Puebla,Valley of, 55
Purchas, Samuel, 9
Quatlatlauchan (city-state), 173
Quetzalcoatl (god), 85, 177, 208, 219, 220,
222, 223, 224, 225, 234, 263, 308n3
Quetzaltepec (city-state), 159
rain. See climate; Tlaloc
raw materials, and tribute assessments, 164;
See also natural resources
rebellion, by conquered peoples in Aztec
Empire, 159, 174, 271
reciprocity, and domestic rituals, 244
regional variation, as theme in Aztec
studies, 27
Relaciones geográficas (1578–1585), 10, 59
religion: and arts, 252–8; and crime, 212;
and education of children, 203; and gods,
220, 221, 229–36, 309n12; and history
of Aztecs, 223–5; impact of Spanish
colonialism on, 288–92, 311–12n29–36;
rulers and control of sacred world,

344

Index
religion: and arts (cont.)
151–2; scheduling and use of tribute, 165.
See also priests and priestesses; rituals;
sacrifice; shamans; temples
resistance, of conquered peoples in Aztec
Empire, 174–5. See also rebellion
Ricard, Robert, 311–12n33
rituals: continuation of in local contexts
under Spanish rule, 291–2, 311n32; and
gods, 236–46; and funerals, 209–10,
308n26; and household, 243–4; and
solar calendar, 218–19, 226–8, 230.
See also ceremonies; religion; sacrifice
rivers: and Aztec worldview, 84; irrigation
and diversion of, 76–7; trade and canoe
transport, 114
roads, and transport or travel, 114
rulers and rulerships (tlatocayotl): control
of and display of symbols of wealth,
150–1; and control of land and labor,
147–50; and control over sacred world,
151–2; establishment of legitimacy and
power of, 146–7; and exercise of power,
152–5, 306n23; food and meals of, 305n10;
funerals of, 210; and gifts of warrior
regalia, 264, 310n6, 310n8; and merchants,
304n38; as political actors, 141–4; and
social hierarchy, 179; women as, 144,
308n20
rural communities, and demography of
Basin of Mexico, 61–2
sacred bundles, 237–8
sacrifice: of children to rain god Tlaloc, 204–
5; evidence for human in Mesoamerica,
240, 309n17; and human remains in
archaeological record, 22–3; public
ceremonies and offerings, 238–9; rituals
involving human, 239–43
Sahagún, Bernardino de: on agriculture, 82,
83; on behavior of noblewomen, 180,
202, 212; on birth of children, 199; on
Chichimeca, 37; on city-state, 136; on craft
production, 92, 108, 111; on distinction
between nobles and commoners, 183; on
domesticated birds, 302n44; on education
of children, 200, 203, 211; on elderly,
207, 208; elites as informants of, 307n5;
on feasting, 188; on food supplies for
military, 160; and historical documents
as sources of information on Aztec
world, 10; on houses of commoners,
65; on human sacrifice, 244; on maize,
301n26; on marketplaces and trade, 122,
125; on nature in Aztec worldview, 84,
247; on noble houses, 69; and pictorial

codices as sources of information on
Aztec world, 6, 7, 13; on poverty, 190;
on rulers, 153, 299n10, 305n10; on
sculpture, 257; on sorcerers, 245; on tools,
302n42; on warfare and warrior regalia,
265–6, 310–11n11; on waterfowl, 85.
See also Florentine Codex
Salgado González, Silvia, 270
salt, production of, 85–6
Sánchez Bain, Andrés, 309n21
Sanders, William T., 27, 29, 55, 58, 60–1, 62,
76, 79, 80, 81, 103, 299n22, 300n7, 300n14,
301n37
Sandstrom, Alan R., 45, 292
San Pablito, Puebla (modern village),
103, 105
scale, of craft production, 98–9
Schneider, Harold K., 125
Schortman, Edward, 32
Schroeder, Susan, 307n11
sculpture: and monuments, 257–8; and
Templo Mayor, 298n13
seasonality, and Aztec diet, 70
Selden, John, 9
selectivity, of archaeological information, 21
Seler, Eduard, 245, 246, 263
shamans: and divination or magic, 245; and
nature in Aztec worldview, 85
shell, and beads, 124, 127
Sierra Madre Occidental, 56
Skoglund, Thanet, 174
Sky of the Sun (Tonatiuh Ilhuicatl), 209
slaves and slavery: and marketplaces, 117–18,
122, 304n30; and punishments for crime,
213; and social class structure, 185, 189–91,
307n8; value of, 127
Smith, Michael, 20–1, 29, 33, 62, 118, 137, 138,
169, 173–4, 229, 237, 271, 300n7, 300n12,
301n33, 305n2, 306n18, 309n12
social life: and commoners, 180–4; family
and daily life, 191–214; intermediate
positions and achievement in, 184, 186–91;
and nobles, 177–80
solar calendar, 216, 218, 219
Solís, Felipe, 18
songs: and arts in service of religion and
state, 255–6; as sources of information on
Aztec world, 12
sorcerers, and magic, 245, 308n29
Southwest (U.S.), and trade with Aztec
Empire, 56, 299n7
Spain: estimates of population in Basin
of Mexico by conquistadores, 58–9;
and historical documents as sources
of information on Aztec world, 9–11;
response of Aztec culture to pressures

345

Index
of, 277–93, 311–12n29–36; and warfare,
311n16. See also colonial period
specialization: of craft production, 90–113;
trade and Aztec imperial expansion, 133–4
spelling rules, variability of in colonial
documents written in Nahuatl, xx
Spence, Michael W., 103–4
spies, professional merchants as, 131, 133–4
spindle whorls, 72, 73, 111, 301n30–2, 302n9,
303n23
spinning and weaving: in contemporary
Mexico, 301n28–9; and craft production
in commoner and elite households, 72,
73, 99, 308n19; and education of children,
203, 302n10; in Spanish colonial period,
287. See also backstrap loom; clothing
squashes, and Aztec diet, 70
Stark, Barbara L., 30, 128, 307n40
state. See city-state; political organization
storage: and agriculture in Basin of Mexico,
71–2; and houses of commoners, 65, 67
sumptuary laws, 177, 178, 211
Sun Stone, 18–19, 216
symbols and symbolism: and distinctions
between nobles and commoners, 178; of
monumental sculpture, 257–8; rulers and
control over, 150–1, 153; of warrior regalia,
262–5, 268, 310–11n1–12
syncretism, and impact of Spanish on Aztec
religion, 289–90
Tamime (culture), 37, 39
Tapia, Andrés de, 10
Tarascan Empire, 56, 171
Tarschys, Daniel, 163
Taube, Karl A., 221–2
Tavárez, David, 291
tax, and use of term “tribute,” 163
technology: and Aztec food-growing
systems, 83; and ethnographic sources
of information on Aztec world, 23.
See also tools
Tecuantepec (city-state), 159
Tecuciztecatl (god), 221
Tecuichpo (daughter of Motecuhzoma
Xocoyotzin), 282
temples, burning of as symbol of conquest,
158. See also Templo Mayor
Templo Mayor (Tenochtitlan), 3, 21, 22–3,
39, 165, 210, 215, 238, 298n13, 299n8–9
Tenochtitlan: and artisans attached to royal
palace, 108; and Calendar Stone, 19;
and Chapultepec aqueduct, 78–9; and
commoner houses, 63; and commoner
lands, 183; cosmology and spatial
arrangements of, 225, 229; differences

of from preceding cities in Basin of
Mexico, 43; and elite houses or palaces,
68; estimates for urban population of, 57,
61; founding of, 38, 41; and merchants,
130; Motecuhzoma Xocoyotzin and
replacement of sacrificial stone, 149–50;
Spanish destruction of, 277, 280;
Teotihuacan and architectural and artistic
styles of, 35–6; and Triple Alliance, 139–41,
306n32, 307n37. See also Templo Mayor
Teochichimeca (culture), 37
Teotihuacan (city), 33–6, 95, 103, 263, 299n8
Teotitlan del Camino (city-state), 304n25
teotl (deity), 230
Tepaneca (people), 38, 305n5
Tepeacac (province), 132, 148, 305n14,
306n28
Tepeapulco (city-state), 95, 117, 120,
121, 122
tepescohuite (Mimosa tenuiflora), 251
Tepexic (city-state), 173
terracing, and agriculture, 75–6, 301n33
Tetela (province), 171
Teteo Inan (goddess), 184, 263
Tetzcotzinco (pleasure garden), 77
Texcoco (city-state), 61, 95, 103, 106, 107, 117,
139–41, 164, 183, 300n19, 305n15
Texcoco, Lake, 50, 52, 77, 80, 87, 114, 299n3,
301–2n38
Tezcatlipoca (god), 220, 222, 223, 224, 225,
230–1, 309n7
Tezozomoc (nobleman), 145
Thevet, André, 9
Thomas, Hugh, 282, 286, 311n15
Thompson, J. Eric, 125
tierra caliente, 51, 56
tierra fría, 50, 51–2, 54, 55, 56
tierra templada, 51, 56
time, cyclical and repetitive nature of Aztec,
216–19. See also calendars
Tizoc (ruler 1481–1486), 142, 145, 166
Tlacaelel (political leader), 278
Tlacopan (city-state), 139–41, 282, 305n5
Tlahuizcalpantecuhtli (god), 234
Tlaloc (rain god), 152, 204, 219, 224, 231–2
Tlalocan (afterlife), 209
Tlaltecuhtli (god), 220, 231
Tlapa-Tlachinollan (city-state), 174
Tlatelolco (city): Aztec conquest of, 158–9;
craft production and marketplace of, 91,
94, 107, 109, 298n12; and human remains,
22, 23; political strategy and Aztec rule
of, 170; trade and marketplace of, 115–17,
120, 122, 123, 128, 132, 267, 276; and Triple
Alliance, 140
tlatoani (ruler, speaker), 144, 281, 282

346

Index
Tlaxcallan (city-state), 158, 175, 271, 278–9,
306n24
Tlaxiaco (city-state), 122
Tochpan (province), 121, 122, 164, 166–8, 172
Tochtepec (city-state), 164
Toci (goddess), 225, 234, 289
Tollan (semimythical), 33–4
Tollocan (city-state), 159
Toltecs: and Aztec as hybrid culture, 37–42;
and subjective nature of ethnicity in Aztec
culture, 45. See also Tula
Toluca,Valley of, 55, 159
Tonantzin (goddess), 289
Tonatiuh (god), 224, 289
tools: and Aztec agriculture, 82–3, 302n42–3;
ethnography and use of traditional, 23;
for featherworking, 101; introduction of
Spanish, 286, 311n26
Topiltzin Quetzalcoatl (culture hero), 234
Torquemada, Juan de, 6, 10, 55, 115, 218, 235,
241, 302n8, 307n15
Tototepec (city-state), 159
Tovar, Juan de, 10
Townsend, Richard F., 225, 230
trade and trade networks: beyond political
borders of Aztec Empire, 56, 299n6;
and Chichimecs, 39; and commercial
exchange in Late Postclassic, 113–29; and
expansion of Aztec Empire, 133–4; in
indigenous goods under Spanish rule,
284–5; and regional merchants, 129–32;
and world systems theory in Aztec
context, 272–7. See also markets and
marketplaces; merchants
transportation: and commercial exchange
in Aztec world, 113–14; and introduction
of animals by Spanish, 287–8; of tribute
payments, 164
tree-ring data, and natural disasters in Basin
of Mexico, 55
tribute: and design of clothing in
peripheral areas, 270; and diversity of
craft production, 96–7; and inheritance,
194; and labor duties, 148, 150; and
marketplaces in central Mexico, 121–2;
and political dynamics of empire, 156,
162–75, 306n28–34; and sources of
precious materials, 91; and Spanish
imperial administration, 280, 285
Triple Alliance: and city-states, 138–41;
formation of in 1428–1430, 43; and use
of term Aztec Empire, xvii. See also Aztec
Empire
tuberculosis, 250
Tula (city), 33, 34, 36, 234, 299n4.
See also Toltecs

Tulancinco (city-state), 121
turquoise, 93, 122, 152, 298n18
Tzicoac (city-state), 121
tzitzimime (goddesses), 232
Umberger, Emily, 36, 42, 257, 299n2
universe, and Aztec cosmology, 220, 225
Urban, Patricia, 32
urban communities, and demography of
Basin of Mexico, 61–2. See also city-states
urban development: and cosmology, 225, 228;
and establishment of Aztecs in Basin of
Mexico, 41. See also Tenochtitlan
values, and Aztec concept of exemplary life,
202, 210, 211
Vargas,Victoria D., 299n6
variation, as theme in interpretation of Aztec
world, 26–8
Virgin of Guadalupe, 289
Von Humboldt, Alexander, xvii
vowels, and Nahuatl pronunciation guide,
xix–xx
Wallerstein, Immanuel, 271
warfare: and commoners, 181, 184; conquest
and control of lands, 147–8; damage
to and repair of weapons, 303n17; and
cotton armor, 306n25–6; and eagle nobles
(quauhpipiltin), 186; and ethnicity in
Mesoamerica, 45; and fertility concepts
in Aztec worldview, 225; and gods, 233–4;
health and injuries in, 247, 250, 251; and
history of militarism in Mesoamerica,
156; and human sacrifice, 241; military
service and control of labor, 148; and
political dynamics of empire, 158–61;
preceding cultures in Basin of Mexico
and early Aztecs as mercenaries, 41; and
Spanish, 311n16; and training, 160, 203;
and warrior regalia, 260–8, 310–11n1–12.
See also flowery wars; rebellion
Warren, J. Benedict, 10
water: Aztec preoccupation with control
of, 15; and “waterfolk” specialists, 86;
and waterfowl as source of food, 85.
See also aqueducts; chinampas; irrigation;
lakes; rivers
weaving. See spinning and weaving
Weiner, Annette B., 262, 264, 265, 266
Wells, E. Christian, 30
white zapote fruit (Casimiroa edulis), 251
Whitmore, Thomas M., 58
Wolf, Eric, 55
women: flexibility in activities and routines
of, 206; names of, 307n12; as priestesses,

347

Index
235, 237; as rulers, 144, 308n20; standards
of behavior for noble, 180, 202, 212.
See also gender
workshops, and craft production, 103–4
world systems model: and interpretation
of Aztec world, 29, 259, 268–77; and
Mesoamerica as culture area, 32–3
worldview, role of nature in Aztec, 84–5,
230, 247
writing: and books in Aztec society, 252–5;
and earliest alphabetic records for Nahuatl
language, xix; and glyphs in codices,
297n5–6; introduction of alphabetic by
Spanish, 289. See also pictorial codices

Xiuhtecuhtli (god), 152, 230, 231
Xochicalco (city), 108, 299n2
Xochimilco (city-state), 50, 80, 103, 106, 107,
159, 305n13, 311n20
Xochipilli (god), 233, 312n36
Xochiquetzal (goddess), 184, 233,
263, 310n4
Xoconochco (province), 56, 122, 131, 133,
159, 164

Xaltocan (city-state), 50, 87, 106
Xicalanco (trading center), 131, 277
Xilonen (god), 233
Xipe Totec (god), 233, 234

Zorita, Alonso de, 6, 10, 153, 194, 297n4,
307n15
Zultepec (city-state), 23
Zumpango, Lake, 50

Yacatecuhtli (god), 184, 234
Yoaltepec (province), 173
Yoffee, Norman, 30, 151
Young, Allen M., 125

