=== PAGE 13 ===
Shell Eco-marathon Qatar 2026
Official Rules, Chapter II
13
4.	 Competition/Practice
Article 224: Technical Inspection
a.	 Technical Inspection is intended to assess the Teams compliance with applicable requirements set out in Chapter 
I. All vehicles must pass Technical and Safety Inspection before being permitted to participate in competition 
attempts. For practice runs, only a Safety Inspection is required, as outlined in Article 13.
b.	 Technical Inspection is available only during official inspection hours. Teams must present their vehicle at the 
designated inspection area during these times. 
c.	 Before entering the Technical Inspection Queue, Teams must complete a self-inspection checklist, which will be 
provided by the end of the Logistics Registration phase.
d.	 Teams may complete Technical Inspection over multiple sessions and return for further checks as needed. There is 
no limit to the number of inspection attempts. All vehicles must pass inspection before the published deadline to 
be eligible for competition attempts.
e.	 A maximum of three team members may accompany the vehicle during inspection. Team members may rotate 
based on required expertise. At least one student team member should be present at all times during technical 
inspection to operate the vehicle and respond to inspector questions. All questions during inspection should be 
answered by student team members.
f.	
Teams who pass Technical Inspection after the first competition session has started will receive half of the defined 
number of attempts. OR Teams who pass Technical Inspection before the first competition session will receive two 
additional attempts.
Article 225: Definition of Mileage Challenge Competition
The Mileage Challenge is an efficiency-based competition where teams aim to achieve the highest possible energy 
efficiency within their respective vehicle category and energy class. Vehicles must complete a set number of laps 
within a set amount of time, with multiple attempts permitted.
Article 226: Attempt requirements
For the attempt to be valid, teams must complete four (4) consecutive laps in a maximum time of 35 minutes for a total 
distance of 14.8 km. The time requirement for Prototype and Urban Concept vehicle categories is the same.
Article 227: Urban Concept compulsory stop
Drivers of Urban Concept vehicles must stop twice per lap at designated locations, which will be confirmed at the 
event. Each stop point will be clearly marked and supervised by a Track Marshal.
Vehicles must come to a complete stop before the stop line, no more than three car lengths away. If the area is 
occupied, drivers may stop safely behind other vehicles.
Failure to stop correctly or performing a rolling stop will invalidate the attempt.
Article 228: Number of attempts
Each team will be limited to a maximum of six (6) attempts on track. The best result from each team will be taken for 
the final competition classification.
An attempt is counted when the vehicle crosses the start line. 
Even if the vehicle stops near the start line, a new start will not be granted for the attempt in question.


=== PAGE 14 ===
Shell Eco-marathon Qatar 2026
Official Rules, Chapter II
14
Article 229: Start and finish of the attempt
a.	 Eligibility to Start
Only vehicles which have passed technical and safety inspection will be allowed in the queue to access the starting 
line. In addition, both the Team Manager and Driver must have attended the mandatory briefing held on the day of 
the attempt, see Article 12 in the Chapter I Rules.
b.	 Participants in Starting Area
The vehicle may be accompanied by the Driver and up to two Pit Crew members, who have the appropriate 
armbands or vests. Once the vehicle has left the starting line, all non-driving participants must leave the starting area.
The starting area is dedicated for the Driver to take his/her place in the vehicle in safe conditions, and to close the 
vehicle body. It is forbidden to work on the vehicle in this area. No equipment will be tolerated in the starting area, 
e.g. heater system, trolley, toolbox, etc. 
c.	 Start line procedures
As per Chapter I, Article 14, vehicles must be at a complete stop before starting and may not receive any external 
assistance. Pushing the vehicle is strictly prohibited. Drivers must wait for the green flag signal from the flag bearer 
before entering the track at the designated merging point. Crossing the solid demarcation line between the pit lane 
and track is forbidden.
If a team is unable to start their vehicle within 30 seconds, they must leave the Starting Area and rejoin at the end of 
the queue when ready to attempt again. 
d.	 Finish line procedures
Team members, who have the appropriate ID badges, wristbands and armbands or vests must be present in the 
designated track exit area to receive the vehicle once it exits the track.
Competitors are not allowed to work on their vehicles or manipulate their on-board telemetry system prior to 
inspection of the vehicle by the Inspectors. The Technical Team are the only people authorised to fill or top up the tank.
Article 230: Results verification
All results are considered temporary until the official results are published on the Shell Eco-marathon website 
after the Event.
In the event of any disputes, all decisions made by the Race Director are binding and final.


=== PAGE 15 ===
Shell Eco-marathon Qatar 2026
Official Rules, Chapter II
15
Article 231: Track map
The track layout is shown on the image below. Track coordinates can be found at the 
Shell Eco-marathon Data and Telemetry Portal.
Turn
Marshal Post
4
3
2
15
Race direction
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
6
14
1
5
5
6
3
2
1
11
10
9
8
7
4
Figure 1 - Shell Eco-marathon Qatar 2026 track representation


=== PAGE 16 ===
Shell Eco-marathon Qatar 2026
Official Rules, Chapter II
16
Article 232: Flags on the track:
The following flags may be used during the competition by the Track Marshals.
Checkered Flag
End of competition, arrival at finish line
Green Flag
Track access is authorized
Yellow Flag
Danger on track, no passing allowed
Red Flag
Mandatory stop under the orders of race management
Article 233: Team Manager and Drivers Accreditation
Specific accreditation will be provided to the team manager and drivers.
This will be your reference for:
	Briefing presence control.
	Technical inspection process and final status.
	Competition access, race queue entrance, and start and finish measurement.
Article 234: Timekeeping
All vehicles will be fitted with a transponder after technical inspection. Placement will depend on the vehicles design 
and may be inside or outside the body, secured with adhesive tape or similar.
In case of a malfunction of the transponder during an attempt, the attempt will be voided, and a replacement attempt 
will be awarded if the malfunction is verified by the Organisers. The ability to use this attempt will depend on the 
remaining time in the competition.
Transponders must be returned to the Technical Team during Participant check-out at the end of the event.
Article 235: Breakdowns and Other Incidents
In the event of a red flag, vehicles on track may be granted a replacement attempt, depending on the circumstances 
and remaining track time. For further details, refer to Article 18 in Chapter I in the Chapter I Rules.
Article 236: Panelling Area
A dedicated panelling area is designated for teams to communicate with drivers using panel boards along the track. 
Only two participants wearing a dedicated safety vest or armband supplied by the Organiser shall be allowed in the 
panelling area at any time. Panelling outside this area is forbidden.
 



